Ruiz has refused to step down .
On Wednesday , police re-opened a central square in the city after clearing out protesters .
At least nine people , including a U.S. journalist , have been killed in the crisis in recent weeks .
Chinese authorities are being ordered to prepare for new flooding as the death toll from weeks of weather-related disasters continues to rise .
The official Xinhua news agency said Monday that two more periods of heavy rainfall are forecast across China .
It said local authorities have been instructed to evacuate residents from high-risk areas and set up emergency shelters well in advance .
More than 2,300 people have died across China in weeks of flooding and mudslides triggered by torrential rains .
The toll now stands at 1,254 dead in Zhouqu , a town in northwest Gansu province that was partly buried by mud a week ago .
A town official told the French news agency that roads to the town are still clogged with mud , hampering relief efforts .
Gunmen killed at least 31 people in Pakistan 's southern port city of Karachi as a by-election was held Sunday to replace a lawmaker murdered earlier this year .
The violence broke out Saturday night when gunmen opened fire in several parts of the city ahead of the vote .
Police say they have arrested at least 20 suspects in connection with the killings .
The election was being held to replace provincial lawmaker Raza Haider from the Muttahida Quami Movement ( MQM ) , who was gunned down in August .
The assassination sparked four days of violence that killed at least 85 people .
MQM , which largely represents the Urdu-speaking community , and the rival Awami National Party , representing ethnic Pashtuns , blamed each other for the violence .
Karachi has been plagued by ethnic and sectarian killings , crime and kidnappings .
"Ivory Coast 's prime minister says he is "" convinced "" that new African Union president Denis Sassou-Nguesso will fully support the U.N. peace plan for his country ."
Charles Konan Banny spoke to reporters Sunday after meeting with the AU and Congolese president in the Republic of Congo 's capital , Brazzaville .
Mr. Sassou-Nguesso was named AU president last week after Sudan 's bid to head the 53-nation block failed because of concerns over its human rights record .
Mr. Banny heads a transitional government tasked with arranging elections in Ivory Coast , which has been split between rebel-held and government-controlled areas since a 2002 civil war .
The United Nations removed some staff from Ivory Coast following attacks on U.N. offices there earlier this month .
The attacks were carried out by militant supporters of President Laurent Gbagbo , after U.N.-backed foreign mediators recommended that parliament be dissolved to advance the peace process .
The White House has expressed doubts about a Russian proposal for a Middle East peace conference , saying diplomats should focus on Israel 's upcoming Gaza withdrawal .
Russian President Vladimir Putin suggested holding such a conference Wednesday after meeting in Cairo with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak .
Both Russia and the United States sponsored the Middle East road map peace plan along with the European Union and United Nations .
Mr. Putin 's talks in Egypt made him the first Russian leader to visit Cairo in four decades .
He then went to Israel for talks Thursday with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon before he is to meet Friday with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank .
Mr. Putin is the first Russian or Soviet leader to visit Israel .
Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko says her government plans to review some 3,000 privatizations to ensure they were conducted fairly .
"The Interfax news agency quotes her as saying Wednesday that the state will get back what was illegally handed over to what she called "" private but dishonest hands . """
She has already ordered authorities to begin the process of returning the country 's largest steel mill , Kryvorizhstal , to government control .
A consortium that included the son-in-law , Viktor Pinchuk , of former Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma purchased the complex last year for $ 800 million , far below its estimated market value .
Many privatizations in Ukraine took place under questionable circumstances after the fall of the Soviet Union .
China says it plans to issue its first ever white paper on the country 's political democracy .
China 's official Xinhua news agency said Tuesday that the Information Office of China 's State Council will issue the document Wednesday .
"The announcement said the white paper will give a detailed account of the "" inception , development , contents and principles of the country 's political democracy . """
Xinhua said the document will also mention the problems Beijing faces in building democracy .
International rights organizations and several countries , including the United States , have criticized Beijing for not speeding the pace of political reform .
China rejects the criticism , saying internal affairs should be handled by China 's government and citizens , not outsiders .
Iraqi authorities say a roadside bomb struck a police patrol northeast of Baghdad late Wednesday , killing at least two police officers and wounding four others .
The explosion occurred in the town of Jalawla in Diyala province .
Insurgents frequently target local and international security forces .
Turkish media are reporting that two bombs have exploded in the southern Turkish resort city of Antalya , wounding at least six people .
Turkey 's Anatolia news agency says the explosions Tuesday were in two different locations , but occurred just minutes apart .
One of the bombs was planted in a trash can that exploded as workers were emptying it .
Anatolia reports that the second blast also came from a trash can and wounded three people , including a tourist .
It is unclear who planted the bombs .
Kurdish rebels from the banned Kurdistan Workers Party have recently launched several attacks on Turkish resort towns .
Other terrorist attacks in the country have been blamed on Islamic terrorists .
Antalya , on Turkey 's Mediterranean coast , is a popular vacation resort .
A lingering ankle injury will keep tennis great Andre Agassi from playing in the Australian Open , the first Grand Slam tennis tournament of the season .
Agassi 's management company issued a statement in Australia Thursday saying the former Australian Open champion would not play in the event beginning January 16 .
The 35-year-old Agassi has also withdrawn from the Kooyong exhibition event next week .
Agassi sustained a severe sprain to his left ankle on October 12 while playing racquetball .
The injury initially forced his withdrawal from the Tennis Masters Cup in Shanghai in November .
Agassi finished 2005 ranked number seven by the Association of Tennis Professionals .
Agassi has won eight career Grand Slam titles .
Half of them were at the Australian Open .
India and Saudi Arabia have signed a memorandum of understanding to combat terrorism .
The two sides also inked three other agreements on bilateral investment promotion and protection , avoidance of double taxation , and cooperation in the field of youth affairs and sports .
The accords were signed Wednesday following a meeting between Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and visiting Saudi King Abdullah in New Delhi .
The Saudi monarch is the guest of honor at Thursday 's Indian Republic Day celebrations .
During his four-day stay , aimed at boosting energy and trade ties between the two sides , he will also hold talks with President Abdul Kalam and other top ranking officials .
King Abdullah arrived in India from China , where he signed several economic deals with Chinese President Hu Jintao .
At least 43 people were killed Wednesday , when three car bombs exploded in close succession in central Baghdad .
Nearly 80 other people were wounded .
Police say two car bombs exploded within minutes of each other at a major bus station , that services cities in mainly Shi'ite southern Iraq .
A short time later , a suicide bomber detonated his explosives outside a nearby hospital as the wounded were arriving for treatment .
Wednesday 's violence comes as political leaders resume negotiations to try to hammer out a draft constitution .
Negotiators took a one-day break in talks after missing Monday 's draft deadline .
Parliament has voted an extension until midnight August 22 .
If there is no document by then , the interim constitution dictates that parliament and the government must be dissolved and new elections held .
A pro-U.S.-immigration rally has been held in the same Los Angeles park where a similar rally earlier this month ended in a clash between demonstrators and police .
Hundreds of activists gathered in the city 's MacArthur Park Thursday after marching from a church , where they held a meeting .
Demonstrators called for fair treatment for 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States .
Hours earlier , the Bush administration reached agreement with several U.S. senators on a plan that would provide legal status and a path to citizenship to the immigrants .
At a rally on May 1 , riot police fired rubber bullets at demonstrators and beat many of them with batons .
Police said they responded after being hit by rocks and bottles .
The FBI is investigating possible civil rights violations .
Iraqi security forces have surrounded a town south of Baghdad where gunmen believed to be Sunni militants have taken at least 60 Shi'ite Muslims hostage .
Authorities say the gunmen have threatened to kill the hostages in Madaen unless Shi'ites leave the town .
The town has a mixed population of Sunni and Shi'ite Muslims .
The abductions are the latest in a series of violent incidents throughout the country .
A bomb explosion Saturday at a restaurant in Baquba a town north of Baghdad killed up to seven people , including at least two police officers .
Meanwhile , gunmen have killed one policeman and at least one Iraqi soldier in separate incidents in the city of Kirkuk .
And further to the north , in Mosul , a car bomb damaged a U.S. military convoy .
Causality reports from that incident are not yet available .
Officials and witnesses in Somalia say at least one person was killed when a roadside bomb exploded in Mogadishu Saturday near the convoy of the capital city 's two deputy mayors .
The convoy was traveling through northern Mogadishu when the bomb was detonated .
A teenage boy was killed , and four government troops were wounded .
The deputy mayors narrowly avoided injury .
Guerrilla attacks have increased in Mogadishu since government troops allied with Ethiopian forces battled Islamist forces in March and April , killing more than 1,000 people .
Somalia has been without an effective government since 1991 , when warlords overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre and then turned against each other .
Ethiopian Foreign Minister Seyoum Mesfin visited Somalia Saturday to discuss the security situation with government officials .
Officials in the Somali capital of Mogadishu say a bomb explosion near the mayor 's convoy Sunday has killed two people and wounded several others .
Mogadishu mayor Mohammed Dheere and his convoy escaped unharmed .
He says security forces killed the suspected bomber as he tried to flee .
Dheere told reporters his convoy was traveling on a road north of the city when the explosion occurred .
It is unclear whether the device was a remote-controlled bomb or a grenade .
The mayor blames remnants of the Islamic courts movement for the attack .
Last Thursday , the convoy of Interim Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi was also attacked while traveling in Mogadishu .
No injuries or deaths were reported in that incident .
The owner of a Venezuelan pro-opposition television channel has told U.S. media that he has asked for political asylum in the United States .
Globovision president Guillermo Zuloaga made the comment Wednesday in an interview with CNN 's Spanish language channel .
Zuloaga fled to the U.S. in June after the government in Caracas issued a warrant for his arrest based on fraud charges relating to another business , an auto dealership .
Zuloaga denied the charges and said Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez ordered his arrest on trumped-up charges .
Zuloaga has also denied allegations of involvement in a $ 100-million scheme to assassinate the Venezuelan president .
Mr. Chavez has waged a long-running campaign against Globovision .
The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights said earlier this year that it is concerned about the use of the punitive power of the state to silence opponents in Venezuela .
The British Broadcasting Corporation ( BBC ) says unidentified gunmen shot and wounded one of its journalists in the Somali capital , Mogadishu .
The broadcaster says Kate Peyton was rushed to a local hospital after the attack and underwent surgery .
Hospital officials say she is in stable condition .
Witnesses say the attackers opened fire on Ms. Peyton outside her hotel ( Sahafi Hotel ) and fled the scene in a vehicle .
A colleague working with her was unhurt in the attack .
Ms. Peyton had traveled from her home in South Africa this week to report on a visit by Somalia 's new government to Mogadishu .
Somali officials are readying plans to move the new government from its current base in Kenya later this month .
Somalia has been without a central government for 14 years , having been ruled by warring factional leaders .
An Indian diplomat has been formally charged with spying for India 's longtime rival Pakistan .
Officials say Madhuri Gupta was charged Tuesday under the Official Secrets Act .
She is alleged to have passed classified information to Pakistan 's intelligence agency .
The 53-year-old junior diplomat worked at the press and information wing of the Indian embassy in Islamabad for three years .
Gupta was taken into custody in April after being called back to New Delhi on the pretext of consultations .
Tensions run deep between India and Pakistan , whose dispute over Kashmir has led to decades of hostility and triggered three wars .
China 's central government has formally launched its official Web site .
The www.gov.cn site serves as a platform for the central and regional governments to release information and provide some online services .
There is also an English-language section with information on recent government news , biographies of officials and information for travelers to the country .
"China 's official Xinhua news agency quotes the Web site 's editor-in-chief as saying the site works to increase government transparency and prevent "" miscommunication "" between the government and the people ."
China 's central government has come under criticism in recent months for moves that tighten control over the Internet .
New regulations forbid Internet news sites from publishing information that goes against what the government calls China 's security and public interest .
A double suicide attack on a Pakistani military checkpoint near Quetta has killed at least 11 people and wounded several others .
Officials say the first bomber detonated explosives Thursday near a line of vehicles waiting at the checkpoint in southwestern Baluchistan province .
As people gathered near the wreckage , a second suicide bomber triggered another explosion .
Among the dead are five Pakistani soldiers .
Baluchistan province experiences regular bombing and shooting attacks , usually blamed on Baluch nationalists battling the central government for more autonomy and a larger share of the region 's oil and natural gas reserves .
But suicide attacks are more commonly carried out by pro-Taliban Islamic extremist groups , based north of Baluchistan in Pakistan 's tribal regions .
Afghan police say U.S.-led forces have wounded at least six civilians in two separate incidents involving cars that ignored orders to stop .
Authorities in eastern Khost province say that , in the first incident late Monday , a newborn baby , her mother and two other women were hurt when soldiers opened fire at their car after the driver failed to stop .
Hours later , in the same province , a driver of a truck and a six-year-old boy were injured in a similar incident .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military in Afghanistan says Afghan and coalition troops killed five suspected Taleban insurgents Monday in northeastern Kunar province , where they launched a major offensive last week .
"Some 2,500 troops are participating in "" Operation Mountain Lion "" aimed at disrupting insurgent activities by killing , incapacitating or capturing terrorists operating in the region ."
The Air Transport Association predicts fewer domestic airline passengers in the U.S. this summer , between June 1 and August 31 .
The airline trade group says higher fuel prices and a weak economy have reduced airline carrying capacity which has led to higher ticket prices .
Those factors could have an impact on the number of passengers planning to travel in the U.S. during the traditionally busy summer vacation months .
VOA 's Mil Arcega reports .
Energy ministers of Russia and Ukraine have adjourned until Thursday their talks in Moscow on a huge price hike sought for deliveries by Russia 's state-run natural gas company , Gazprom .
Ukrainian Fuel and Energy Minister Ivan Plachkov and his Russian counterpart , Viktor Khristenko met late Wednesday and agreed to continue discussions .
After the meeting Mr. Plachkov said he believes a compromise is possible .
The Gazprom is threatening to cut natural gas supplies to Ukraine on January 1 if no deal is reached .
Ukraine 's Prime Minister Yuriy Yekhanurov has rejected Gazprom 's plans to more than quadruple natural gas prices , calling it an unacceptable move aimed at putting direct economic pressure on Ukraine .
Mr. Yekhanurov told officials in Kiev his country will take all necessary legal steps if the dispute is not resolved .
Nepal 's Supreme Court has issued a stay-order to temporarily halt the closure of a private radio station that defied a ban on broadcasting news .
Judge Anup Raj Sharma issued an interim order on Wednesday requiring Nepal 's royalist government to immediately suspend the closure of Nepal FM radio station .
Mr. Sharma also questioned the grounds on which the government closed down the station .
Now the station will continue operating until a final ruling by the Supreme Court determines its future .
The Ministry of Information and Communication issued a letter requesting the station be shut down because it defied a ban imposed by King Gyanendra .
Nepal FM aired programs that included weather forecasts , information on cultural events and government announcements .
Afghan police say a suicide bomber has killed at least three people in the south of the country .
Local police chief Jawid Ahmad said the bomber was also killed Saturday when he detonated his explosives while riding his motorcycle in the border town of Spin Boldak in Kandahar province .
Eight people , including women and children , were wounded in the attack .
Spin Boldak is a major crossing point between Afghanistan and Pakistan .
Wednesday , a suicide bomber killed at least five security guards escorting a NATO convoy in a similar attack in the area .
Syria 's ambassador to the United States says his government will fully withdraw from Lebanon as soon as possible , perhaps in less than two months .
Speaking at Georgetown University in Washington , Wednesday Ambassador Imad Moustapha said the timing of the withdrawal will be determined by Syrian and Lebanese military officials , who are set to meet next week .
Earlier , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan said Syrian President Bashar al-Assad had agreed to present by early next month a firm timetable for the pullout .
Mr. Annan also said he will soon release the findings of the U.N. investigation into the February assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
But he added that a second probe may be needed .
Mr. Annan spoke after news reports said early findings show signs of negligence and possible evidence tampering by Lebanese authorities .
Two Egyptian children have tested positive for bird flu , bringing the total number infected in the country to 29 .
The health ministry said Tuesday , the two children are from different areas south of Cairo .
They were taken to the hospital and both are in stable condition .
Sunday , a three-year-old girl from the southern town of Aswan tested positive for the potentially deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu .
The girl 's condition is improving .
Egypt has the largest number of human cases of bird flu outside Asia .
At least 13 people have died since the first confirmed case in the country about a year ago .
Thousands of people in the Haitian capital have demonstrated in support of presidential candidate Rene Preval .
As election workers continued to tally votes in the close race , demonstrators gathered outside the election commission , with some demanding Preval be declared the winner .
But election officials said Saturday that the former president has just over 49 percent of the vote , with about three-quarters of the ballots counted .
He needs to win a majority for an outright victory .
Another former president , Leslie Manigat , is second with 12 percent .
International observers say the election was free and fair and have urged Haitians to respect the outcome .
But candidate Charles Baker , who has about eight percent of the vote , has called for an investigation into reports of people voting multiple times .
Officials from the Federal Bureau of Investigations say violent crime in the U.S. has increased for a second straight year in 2006 .
In its annual crime report , released Monday , the FBI says violent crime increased nationwide by 1.3 percent .
The increase follows a rise of 2.3 percent in 2005 .
The report shows that murders in large cities , with populations over one million , were up by 6.7 percent .
They include cities such as Miami in the southeastern state of Florida , Oakland in the western state of California and Phoenix in the southwestern state of Arizona and New York City , among others .
Around the country incidences of forcible rape decreased by nearly two percent .
Robbery saw an overall increase of near six percent .
The statistics were collected from more than 11,700 law enforcement agencies nationwide .
Deposed Honduran President Manuel Zelaya has given the de~facto government until Monday to consider his counter-proposal for ending the country 's political crisis .
A representative of the ousted leader , Ricardo Martinez , said if no agreement is reached by then , the dialogue is broken .
Mr. Zelaya 's proposal would authorize the Honduran Congress to decide whether to reinstate him .
The Zelaya camp rejected a proposal by Interim President Roberto Micheletti calling for the Supreme Court to make the decision .
"The ousted leader 's chief negotiator called the proposal "" absurd . """
Mr. Micheletti has been under intense international pressure to restore Mr. Zelaya , since he was removed from power in a June 28 coup .
Mr. Zelaya 's opponents say he was ousted because he was trying to illegally change the constitution to extend his term in office .
Japan says it will deliver a second installment of food aid to North Korea , despite its disappointment with recent talks on the fate of Japanese nationals kidnapped by Pyongyang decades ago .
Japan announced the decision Wednesday , one day after saying it would consider imposing sanctions on North Korea , including a suspension of aid .
Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda says Tokyo is analyzing new evidence from Pyongyang on the abductions .
He said such analysis could take time .
Five Japanese kidnapped by North Korea returned to Japan two years ago .
Pyongyang contends eight others are dead .
Japan believes there are two additional abductees whom North Korea has never acknowledged .
An Israeli airstrike has killed a Palestinian man in the Gaza Strip , east of Gaza City .
The Israeli military says aircraft fired at three Palestinian gunmen who were within meters of the security fence separating the Gaza Strip from Israel .
Palestinians give a different account .
A Palestinian militant group , the Popular Resistance Committees , says a bystander was killed when an Israeli helicopter fired at a car carrying several of its fighters .
The violence comes three days before Palestinian parliamentary elections .
The international medical aid group , Doctors Without Borders ( Medecins Sans Frontieres ) , says one of its aid workers was killed in Sudan 's western Darfur region during an attack by government troops .
The aid group said Wednesday the Sudanese employee was shot dead December 17 in front of the group 's warehouse in the town of Labado in the southern part of Darfur .
Doctors Without Borders also said 29 other local staff in the town are missing following fighting between government troops and rebels .
It says the slain man was the second Sudanese employee to be killed in the last three months .
On Tuesday , the British charity Save the Children announced it is evacuating all its staff from Darfur after four of its workers were killed in the past two months .
Iraqi President Jalal Talabani says in a statement he does not intend to seek re-election when his term expires at the end of the year .
But the Kurdish leader says he will remain active in politics .
The 75-year-old Talabani has been president since 2005 .
He had heart surgery in the United States last year .
Officials say he wants to take a rest .
Iraq 's prime minister , Nouri al-Maliki , holds most of the power in the country .
Parliament chooses the president and two vice presidents .
Their terms end when a new parliament is elected at the end of this year .
Afghanistan and its neighbors have ended a two-day conference in Kabul with a pledge to boost economic cooperation in a region reaching from China to Turkey and the Persian Gulf .
In a joint declaration , delegations from 12 nations pledged cooperation in areas including electricity , counternarcotics , and water resource management .
Britain co-chaired the Regional Economic Cooperation Conference as current holder of the G8 presidency .
"British Foreign Office Minister Kim Howells said the Kabul Declaration marks the "" moment when Afghanistan has become a real player in bringing peace and stability to the region . """
The meeting brought together six nations bordering Afghanistan -- Tajikistan , Uzbekistan , Turkmenistan , Iran , Pakistan and China , as well as India , Turkey , the United Arab Emirates , Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan .
The death toll from a fireworks explosion on a bus carrying guests from a wedding in eastern Pakistan has risen to at least 38 , with scores of others injured .
Police officials at the scene in Lahore warned the death toll may rise further since many of the injured are in serious condition .
Witnesses say the bus was engulfed by flames in seconds Sunday , giving people no time to escape .
Some of the victims were burned beyond recognition .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes local residents as saying the blast occurred just seconds after one of the bus passengers was seen throwing firecrackers out of a rear window .
The U.S. space shuttle Discovery 's upcoming mission to the International Space Station has been delayed again , as NASA continues work to repair the shuttle 's external fuel tank .
The U.S. space agency says it is now considering potential launch dates in late February , not early in the month as previously planned .
Cracks in some of the metal supports of Discovery 's fuel tank were discovered when a hydrogen leak led NASA to cancel a planned launch attempt in early November .
NASA officials now say the shuttle could launch as early as February 24 .
At this point , the Discovery supply mission is the next-to-last in the agency 's 30-year shuttle program .
But another flight could be added mid-year , before the fleet is set to retire this year .
Final results from last month 's presidential runoff election in Guinea-Bissau give the victory to former military ruler Joao Bernardo Vieira .
"Electoral officials say Mr. Vieira , also known as "" Nino , "" received 52 percent of the vote , compared with 48 percent for his rival , interim leader Malam Bacai Sanha ."
Mr. Sanha has said he will not accept the results , alleging voter fraud .
Both candidates in the July 24 runoff election had pledged to end years of political instability .
Guinea-Bissau has been plagued by numerous coups and coup attempts since gaining independence from Portugal in 1974 .
Mr. Viera took power in a 1980 coup and ruled 19 years until he was ousted during a civil war .
South Korea says it will not stage another large-scale rescue of North Korean refugees .
South Korean Unification Minister Chung Dong-young told reporters Tuesday that Seoul has no plans to repeat last July 's airlift of 468 North Korean refugees from a third country that was never officially identified but believed to be Vietnam .
The mass defection angered North Korea , which responded by boycotting ministerial talks in August .
Analysts say Mr. Chung 's comments may be part of efforts by South Korea to encourage North Korea to resume bilateral talks .
Last month , South Korea announced it would strengthen background checks on North Koreans seeking asylum in the South , as well as cut financial subsidies to North Korean defectors .
World oil prices rose Wednesday after Iran test-fired some missiles .
Investors assumed the tests indicate continued tensions between Iran , a major oil producer , and Israel and the United States , which might disrupt oil supplies at a time of strong demand and tight inventories .
The price of oil for future delivery rose more than two dollars to go as high as $ 138.28 a barrel in New York trading .
Earlier , U.S. government energy experts said members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will have net export revenues of $ 1.2 trillion this year , nearly double the gain from 2007 .
The increase is driven by record-high oil prices which hit an all time high of $ 145.85 a barrel on July 3 .
The average retail price of gasoline in the United States remains at a record high of just over $ 1.08 a liter ( $ 4.11 a gallon ) .
A commander of Dutch troops in southern Afghanistan says forces from the Netherlands have killed dozens of suspected Taleban fighters in recent months .
In an interview published Saturday in the Netherlands ' daily newspaper NRC Handelsblad , Colonel Henk Morsink said troops in troubled Uruzgan province recently have been involved in six clashes with insurgents .
He also said a senior Taleban leader is believed to be among those killed .
Morsink stressed that his figures are based on estimates that can not always be verified .
More Dutch troops , along with additional forces from Britain and Canada , will soon be deployed in Afghanistan 's volatile south , as NATO members increase troop levels in the country from 9,000 to 16,000 .
A top U.S. diplomat is in Turkey for talks on the situation in neighboring Iraq as it prepares for elections January 30th .
Outgoing Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage was slated to meet with Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul as well as top lawmakers and Turkey 's army chief-of-staff .
Earlier Sunday , in Syria , Mr. Armitage said Damascus has improved security along its border with Iraq .
"But he also urged Syrian leaders to do more , and repeated U.S. claims that members of Saddam Hussein 's ousted regime are "" going back and forth from Syria "" into Iraq ."
The U.S. envoy spoke after meeting with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
Mr. Armitage visited northern Iraq on Saturday , and will also visit Jordan before returning home early this week .
South Africa has lifted a 13-year ban on killing elephants , despite an outcry from conservationists and animal rights activists .
The government earlier this year authorized the move , which took effect Thursday , as a way of controlling the rising elephant population , which has more than doubled since 1995 , to 18,000 .
In related news , a conservation group says 14 elephants have been illegally killed during the last two weeks in the Democratic Republic of Congo 's Virunga National Park .
Wildlife Direct says in a statement released Thursday that rebels , soldiers and local villagers killed the elephants .
The group blames the surge in poaching on the liberalization of the ivory trade being pushed by South Africa , and the increased presence of Chinese operators in the area who feed a demand for ivory in their home country .
The park was estimated to have an elephant population of 350 as of 2006 .
U.S. military officials say a television cameraman killed in Iraq Monday died in a gunbattle between Marines and insurgents , contradicting an account from his news agency .
Dhia Najim , an Iraqi freelance cameraman working for Reuters , was shot and killed in the town of Ramadi , west of Baghdad .
U.S. military officials say Mr. Najim was hit by a bullet in the neck while taping a clash between Marines and insurgents .
But Reuters says video pictures taken at the time of Mr. Najim 's death show he was shot by a sniper and that there was no fighting at the time .
The press freedom group , Reporters Without Borders , has called on the Pentagon to make what it calls a proper investigation .
Russia is warning it will take retaliatory steps if any country deploys weapons in space .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says Moscow 's position on the issue has remained unchanged for decades in that Russia remains categorically against the militarization of space .
He made the comments Thursday in Kazakhstan .
Last month , White House press secretary Scott McClellan said the United States is reviewing a draft updated national space policy - but that policy does not look at the weaponization of space .
However , he did say that protecting U.S. space systems is something that has to be considered .
The Interfax news agency also quotes Mr. Ivanov as saying Moscow is prepared to negotiate an agreement on controlling tactical nuclear weapons - but only when all countries with such weapons keep them within their own territories .
The United States has such weapons in Europe .
The Israeli navy has ordered a Libyan ship carrying humanitarian aid to the Gaza Strip to turn back .
Officials say the ship , the Al Marwa , was carrying some 3,000 tons of aid when it was stopped by the Israeli navy .
Israel says there was no physical confrontation when it ordered the ship to turn around .
Palestinian officials say the ship is now sailing to the Egyptian port of El-Arish .
Gaza 's borders have been largely sealed by Israel and Egypt following a violent takeover by the militant Hamas last year .
The blockade has been stepped up in recent weeks due to a surge in border clashes between the Israeli military and Palestinian militants .
The regional government in Iraq 's Kurdish region has signed seven new foreign oil deals .
The Kurdish Regional Government said in a statement on its Web site Tuesday all revenues from petroleum activities in the Kurdish region will be shared proportionately throughout Iraq under Iraqi law .
The government in the Kurdish region of northern Iraq has approved its own law governing the oil industry , while the Iraqi national parliament is still working on a hydrocarbon law that would regulate the industry throughout the country .
"Iraqi oil minister Hussein al-Shahristani had declared as "" illegal "" a previous agreement between the Kurdish regional government and a foreign oil company , Hunt Oil ."
The Kurdish regional government said the new contracts are for the Mala Omar and Shorish Blocks , the Akre-Bijeel Block , the Shaikan Block , the Rovi and Sarta Blocks , and a block in Dihok province .
Iraq 's Shi'ite politicians have postponed until Sunday a decision to select a new prime minister .
The United Iraqi Alliance met Saturday , to choose between two contenders - Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari and Vice President Adel Abdul-Mahdi .
Each is supported by two major factions in the Shi'ite alliance .
But Shi'ite sources say followers of radical Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr wanted more time to discuss the candidates .
Iraq 's Shi'ite alliance won the largest number of parliament seats in the nation 's December 15th election .
Under Iraq 's constitution , the new parliament should convene within the next two weeks .
Separately , Kuwait 's al-Rai television station says the kidnappers in Iraq of American journalist Jill Carroll are threatening to kill her if their demands are not met by February 26 .
The militants previously had demanded that all Iraqi women prisoners be freed .
The Sri Lankan navy says it has arrested five Indian nationals and confiscated their trawler carrying 61,000 bomb detonators .
A navy spokesman said the five men were detained late Wednesday off the island 's northern coast , an area under Tamil Tiger rebel control , and were handed over to police .
He said authorities are trying to determine if the shipment was meant for the rebels .
The seizure came hours after the government and the rebels agreed to hold a new round of peace talks in Switzerland , easing fears that the country may slide back into full-scale civil war .
Meanwhile , Sri Lanka 's stock market staged a major rally Thursday as investors cheered the agreement between Colombo and the rebels .
Tamil rebels also released a Sri Lankan policeman in what they call a goodwill gesture , four months after capturing him when he strayed into rebel territory .
Greek officials say a moderate earthquake has struck off the coast of some of the country 's islands in the Aegean Sea .
The Athens Geodynamic Institute says Friday 's magnitude 5.1 quake was centered near the eastern islands of Kos and Astypaleia , about 300 kilometers from the Greek capital .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
Iranian state television says the country 's Revolutionary Guards have test-fired several long-range missiles with the capability of carrying cluster bombs .
The state-owned Al-Alam network says the missiles were launched Thursday from a desert site near the central Iranian town of Qom .
The tests mark the beginning of a 10-day Iranian military exercise that will also include drills in the Persian Gulf and Sea of Oman .
The Iranian report says the missile tests involve the Shahab-3 missile , which has a range of up to 2,000 kilometers .
The Revolutionary Guards are the ideological wing of the Iranian armed forces , and have a separate command structure from the regular army .
Iran is conducting military maneuvers after United States held naval exercises in the Persian Gulf earlier this week .
The U.S.-led drills involved 25 nations and were aimed at training forces to block the transport of weapons of mass destruction .
Russia is defending its plans to sell Venezuela assault rifles and helicopters .
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov dismissed concerns expressed by the United States that the guns and aircraft could fall into the hands of leftist rebels in Colombia .
Mr. Lavrov said the arms deal is a bilateral issue in line with international law .
U.S. officials fear Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , who has strained relations with Washington , could export small arms to rebel movements , including rebel groups in neighboring Colombia .
A State Department spokesman says the United States has raised the issue with Russia on several occasions .
Earlier this week , Venezuelan Vice President Jose Rangel said his country is buying the weapons to strengthen its national security and that the purchase should not concern Washington .
Security is tight in the Afghan capital , Kabul , on the eve of the inauguration of the country 's first parliament in more than 30 years .
Police and troops were deployed days ahead of the Monday ceremony , during which 351 new lawmakers will be sworn in by President Hamid Karzai .
The event will be attended by many foreign dignitaries , including U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney .
Concerns that the Taleban insurgents could disrupt the opening of a landmark parliamentary session were heightened after rebels attacked a police checkpoint near Kandahar overnight , killing three policemen .
A Taleban insurgent was also killed in the ambush .
Meanwhile , France 's Defense Minister Michele Alliot-Marie , visiting Kabul on Sunday , said Paris will increase the number of its troops in Afghanistan in 2006 when NATO expands operations there .
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov says Russia will soon begin testing a new intercontinental ballistic missile system .
The Russian minister told reporters his country would develop weapons based on the Topol-M mobile missiles and the sea-based Bulava system .
The Interfax news agency quotes Mr. Ivanov as saying Moscow plans to produce nuclear weapons that can penetrate any defense system .
"Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende says a "" no "" vote in next week 's referendum on the European Constitution would damage the country 's reputation as a champion of European integration ."
"In an interview with Dutch newspapers Saturday Mr. Balkenende said European leaders currently view the Netherlands as a country that works "" constructively and critically "" with international institutions ."
Reuters news agency quotes the Netherlands leader as urging voters not to use the referendum as an opportunity to express discontent with Dutch government policies , but to read the document and vote on its substance .
Latest public opinion polls indicate that more than half of Dutch citizens plan to vote against the treaty in the June first referendum .
Diabetics have a greater than average chance of having a heart attack or stroke .
But new research indicates that lowering blood pressure and cholesterol below recommended guidelines seems to reduce these risks .
VOA 's Carol Pearson tells us about the study .
U.S. presidential candidates John McCain and Barack Obama have responded cautiously to North Korea 's declaration of its nuclear activities .
"Senator McCain Thursday called the declaration "" a modest step forward , "" but said it was only a step covering one part of North Korea 's activities ."
He said the expected destruction of a nuclear cooling tower Friday would be another step , but said it is important to remember that the goal is a full , permanent , and verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula .
Senator Obama said critical questions about North Korea 's nuclear program remain unanswered .
He said sanctions against the country are an important part of leverage to pressure North Korea to act .
President George Bush promised to lift trade restrictions now that North Korea submitted the declaration .
Sales of new homes in the United States declined 1.6 percent in May , evidence that the slump in the housing market is continuing for a second year .
Tuesday 's report from the Commerce Department showed that if sales continued at May 's pace for a year , just 9,15,000 new homes would change hands .
Analysts blame rising interest rates and a glut of unsold homes for the decline .
Besides the housing market , consumers tell researchers they are also worried about jobs and high energy prices .
A separate report by a business group showed consumer confidence declining in June ( by 4.6 points to a reading of 103.9 ) .
Economists track consumer confidence for clues about the consumer spending that drives most of the U.S. economy .
A U.S. federal judge has awarded more than $ 90 million in Cuban assets to the families of two men executed in Cuba in 1961 after the failed Bay of Pigs invasion attempt .
The ruling Friday in the northeastern state of New York ordered a bank holding frozen Cuban assets to pay sums to the families of Howard Anderson and Thomas Ray , both Americans .
Anderson was arrested and executed in Cuba for counter-revolutionary activities , while Ray 's CIA plane was shot down over Cuba .
Both men were executed by the Cuban government .
The families of the men sued Cuba under a U.S. federal law allowing citizens to bring lawsuits against foreign governments in cases of terrorism .
The Bay of Pigs invasion was a CIA-backed attempt by Cuban exiles to overthrow Fidel Castro .
Sales of previously-owned homes in the United States declined in May as higher mortgage interest rates cut demand .
Tuesday 's report from a business group , the National Association of Realtors , says re-sales fell more than one percent .
If home sales continued at this rate for a full year , 6.7 million homes would change hands .
Tuesday 's report on existing home sales contrasts sharply with Monday 's figures on sales of newly-built homes , which increased .
But analysts say new home sales are likely to decline under pressure from rising interest rates .
U.S. central bankers are expected to announce another in a long series of interest rate increases later this week .
A separate report said U.S. consumer confidence increased slightly this month .
Consumer confidence figures give experts clues about consumer spending , which drives most U.S. economic activity .
Russia 's state-owned natural gas firm Gazprom has announced plans to buy a controlling stake in the Russian daily Izvestia .
A spokesman for Gazprom media says negotiations are almost complete , with an announcement in coming days .
The Vedomosti business daily quotes industry officials as speculating the deal could be worth between $ 10 million to $ 20 million .
Critics call the move a Kremlin effort to tighten its influence on the media .
The government already controls national television and radio networks .
An editor at Izvestia resigned last year in what he said was a dispute over the newspaper 's coverage of the Beslan school crisis in which more than 330 people were killed .
He said he was forced to resign over coverage the paper 's leadership deemed too shocking .
The newspaper printed graphic pictures of the bloody siege .
Some speculated that coverage upset the Kremlin .
Jennifer Lopez will come to your party - for a price .
Russian banking tycoon Andrei Melnichenko is reportedly paying the singer-actress $ 2 million to perform at his wife 's 30th birthday party .
International media report Lopez will receive $ 1.2 million for her 40 minute performance in the UK , with an additional $ 8,00,000 earmarked for expenses .
The 35-year-old Melnichenko 's personal fortune is estimated near $ 5 billion .
In other Jennifer Lopez news , the U.S. Magazine Us has named her its Style Icon of the Year ; she 'll pick up her prize at a ceremony in Hollywood .
"The top U.S. weapons inspector for Iraq says the search for weapons of mass destruction has "" gone as far as feasible "" and has found nothing ."
The assessment by CIA special advisor Charles Duelfer , head of the Iraq Survey Group , was contained in an addendum , posted on the Internet late Monday , to last year 's final report on Iraq 's weapons program .
Mr. Duelfer concludes there is no reason to keep many detainees who are held because of their knowledge of Iraq 's weapons program , saying that after more than 18 months , the weapons investigation and debriefing of weapons-related detainees has been exhausted .
The United States maintains that the Iraqi authorities will make the final decision whether to release those detainees .
Mr. Duelfer also warns that there is a risk some Iraqi scientists might share their skills with terrorists or insurgents , who are making concerted efforts to gain chemical weapons capabilities .
NATO has expressed its solidarity with Britain over Thursday 's deadly terrorist attacks in London .
Ambassadors of the 26 alliance states , meeting in Brussels , condemned terrorism in all its forms and reaffirmed NATO 's determination to combat terrorism and defend the alliance 's values of freedom , tolerance and democracy .
Earlier , NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer condemned the bombings as heinous crimes and stressed that they underscored the need for alliance unity in fighting terrorism .
Spanish police have arrested seven people suspected of helping fund Islamic militants with links to the al-Qaida terrorist group .
Interior Minister Jose Antonio Alonso says the seven , arrested in the Costa del Sol region of southern Spain , had provided funds and logistical support to the Algerian-based Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat .
Spanish authorities have stepped up efforts against Islamic militants since last year 's al-Qaida-linked bombings of Madrid commuter trains that killed 191 people .
Last month , police arrested 11 people on charges of providing financial support for the same Algerian-based group in raids in other areas of southern Spain .
Two senior U.S. diplomats are meeting with the new leader of southern Sudan 's former rebel movement Wednesday in an effort to ensure that the sudden death of Vice President John Garang will not derail the peace process .
The visit by Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Connie Newman and special envoy for Sudan Roger Winter follows two days of riots in response to news of the death of Mr. Garang , the former rebel leader who became Sudan 's vice president as part of a peace deal .
At least 42 people died in the violence .
Mr. Garang was killed in a helicopter crash Saturday evening .
He was a key player in the deal that ended 21 years of civil war between rebels in southern Sudan and the Khartoum government .
The U.S. diplomats plan to hold talks with government officials in Khartoum after their meetings in the south of the country .
A lawyers for two British journalists being held in Zimbabwe has accused prosecutors of deliberately delaying the proceedings after state witnesses failed to turn up at court .
"Beatrice Mtetwa told the court in the northern town of Norton Friday that prosecutors are seeking "" to prolong the accused 's agony . """
The Sunday Telegraph 's chief foreign correspondent Toby Harnden and photographer Julian Simmonds have been in custody for more than a week on charges of reporting on last week 's parliamentary elections without accreditation .
The journalists were granted bail last week .
But the state appealed , forcing the men to remain in custody .
Ms. Mtetwa said Friday 's proceedings lasted less than one hour because not all of the state 's witnesses showed up in court .
Reports from Baghdad say two bombs have exploded near a market in central Baghdad , killing at least 10 people .
Police say the second bomb was detonated Tuesday after a crowd had gathered at the site of the first blast , near a shop just outside the Bab al-Sharjee market .
Hours earlier , two Iraqi civilians were killed and four policemen were wounded in two separate roadside bombings in southern Iraq ( at Yousifiyah , south of Baghdad , and in Basra province ) .
A U.S. military announcement today says three Marines were killed Monday near the restive town of Hit in western Anbar province .
A fourth Marine has died of wounds suffered in a similar attack in the same region on Sunday .
The U.S. military in Iraq has sent a team of forensic experts to the northern city of Mosul to investigate the cause of Tuesday 's massive explosion at an American military base that killed 22 people and wounded 72 others .
Initial reports said the base 's dining hall was struck by either a mortar or rocket .
But the military says it is not ruling out anything .
The militant group that claimed responsibility for the attack said it was carried out by a suicide bomber .
Among the dead were 14 American military personnel , four U.S civilian contractors and four Iraqi security force members .
Most of the wounded were also American servicemen .
Wednesday , the streets of Mosul were deserted and the city 's five bridges were closed .
American tanks and troops were positioned across the city and helicopters hovered overhead .
The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame has inducted its newest members at a star-studded ceremony in New York City .
The 2006 class of inductees includes heavy metal band Black Sabbath , punk rockers the Sex Pistols , southern rock mainstays Lynyrd Skynyrd , and the late jazz legend Miles Davis .
Members of the new wave band Blondie also were inducted into the Hall of Fame , Monday .
The hall also gave a lifetime achievement award to trumpeter Herb Alpert and business partner Jerry Moss , the founders of A&M Records .
Musicians become eligible for Hall of Fame consideration 25 years after their first recording .
The Hall of Fame has a museum in Cleveland , Ohio to honor the history and personalities of rock music .
Russia says a strain of bird flu virus found infecting fowl in Siberia is the deadly H5N1 strain that can be transmitted to humans .
A spokesman for the agricultural ministry in Moscow Friday said the investigation of the bird flu outbreak in Russia 's Novosibirsk region indicated the need for wider quarantine measures .
The outbreak in Siberia began earlier this month when large numbers of chicken , geese and other fowl began dying .
Strains of the virus have been hitting flocks throughout Asia , and more than 50 people in southeast Asia have died from exposure to the virus since 2003 .
Health experts fear a global pandemic if the virus mutates into a form easily passed among humans .
Two car bomb blasts near the Shi'ite shrine city of Karbala in southern Iraq have killed at least 20 people and wounded more than 50 others .
Iraqi officials say the attacks targeted Shi'ite pilgrims heading to Karbala for an important Sh'ite holiday this week .
Earlier Monday , another car bomb exploded in front of the Baghdad offices of Al-Arabiya television , killing at least four people and wounding 16 others .
Al-Arabiya staffers said the explosion badly damaged the building and left a huge crater .
Iraqi officials had previously warned the network about the threat of an insurgent attack .
Monday 's bombing was not the first time Al-Arabiya has been targeted in Iraq .
The network 's Baghdad bureau chief escaped harm in 2008 after a bomb was found strapped to his car .
The Arabic-language station is owned by Saudi Arabia and based in Dubai .
A Jewish settler in the West Bank has been indicted by an Israeli court in the shooting deaths of four Palestinians in northern Israel earlier this month .
Defendant Asher Weisgan has been in Israeli custody since allegedly opening fire on a group of Palestinian workers at an industrial zone at the West Bank settlement of Shiloh on August 17 .
At the time of the assault , police said a gunman seized a rifle from an Israeli security officer at the work zone and then shot and killed two Palestinians he had driven to the job site .
He then opened fire on a crowd of nearby workers , killing two more and wounding a fifth worker .
Police said the attacker launched the attack to protest Israel 's recently concluded evacuation of the Gaza Strip .
The leader of Germany 's Social Democratic Party says he will not run again for that post and might not serve in a new cabinet .
Franz Muentefering spoke Monday after the Social Democrats ' executive committee named a left-wing party member to run for party general secretary , rejecting Mr. Muentefering 's chosen candidate .
The committee nominated Andrea Nahles to run , rejecting Kajo Wasserhoevel .
Mr. Muentefering was set to become vice chancellor in a government led by Christian Democrat Chancellor-designate Angela Merkel .
The Social Democrats will elect their general secretary in mid-November .
Iraqi Shi'ite leaders say they have made their final compromise proposal to Sunni Arabs on the text of a new constitution .
A Shi'ite official said Friday the proposal addresses the two main Sunni Arab objections : federalism , and efforts to exclude former members of Saddam Hussein 's Ba'ath Party from public life .
The announcement comes following a phone call from President Bush to Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim , the leader of Iraq 's largest Shi'ite party .
The White House says it is doing everything it can to assist the Iraqis in moving the democratic process forward .
In other developments , the U.S. military launched multiple airstrikes Friday against a building sheltering about 50 suspected terrorists in the western province of Al-Anbar , close to the Syrian border .
No casualty figures were released .
The Russian state-owned oil firm Rosneft has rejected a statement by the giant natural gas company Gazprom about their planned merger .
Wednesday , Gazprom chief Alexei Miller said the Yuganskneftegaz production unit would become an independent state company led by Rosneft head Sergei Bogdanchikov .
Rosneft Thursday said the statement does not correspond with reality , and should be taken as opinion .
The merger would give the state a controlling stake in Gazprom , which would allow the lifting of a ban on foreign ownership of its shares .
The government had seized Yuganskneftegaz for failure to pay taxes and sold it at auction last year .
Rosneft acquired the unit from a previously unknown company that purchased it at the auction .
Critics accuse the Kremlin of trying to tighten control of the oil market and retaliate for former Yukos chief Mikhail Khodorkovsky 's support of the political opposition , charges authorities deny .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for closer cooperation with Syria , as both countries face continuing diplomatic pressure from Western governments .
Mr. Ahmadinejad 's comments Sunday in Tehran came in a joint news conference with visiting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad .
The Iranian news agency quotes Mr. Ahmadinejad as saying common threats require more bilateral cooperation to protect the Middle East from foreign aggression .
Both governments remain on a U.S. list of countries supporting terrorism , and Washington accuses both countries of failing to stop Islamic insurgents from crossing their borders into Iraq .
Additionally , the United States and European governments accuse Iran of seeking to build atomic weapons .
Both governments deny the charges .
Authorities in Angola say 14 more people have died from the Marburg virus , raising the death toll from the outbreak to 146 .
This makes it the worst outbreak of the Ebola-like virus since 123 people died in the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo between 1998 and 2000 .
The World Health Organization has deployed 20 experts to Angola to help combat the virus , which is characterized by headaches , vomiting and diarrhea .
The outbreak has been mainly confined to the northern province of Uige .
Store owners in the capital city of Luanda say panicked residents have bought out all their stocks of household bleach to help guard against the virus .
Ethiopia 's elections body has rejected opposition calls for a re-run of last month 's parliamentary poll , won by the ruling party in a landslide .
A coalition of six parties said the May 23 election was rigged , and that voters and opposition candidates were harassed .
The National Electoral Board said Wednesday that the opposition claims were not backed by any evidence .
Election results showed the ruling EPRDF coalition and allied parties taking 534 out of 537 parliamentary seats .
Opposition leaders say the government 's near-total victory could not be accomplished without cheating .
Both the United States and the European Union criticized the election as falling short of international standards .
Ethiopian officials have said the voting was free , fair , and democratic .
The election was Ethiopia 's first parliamentary poll since a disputed 2005 vote that led to violent unrest .
Security forces killed nearly 200 people while putting down demonstrations after that poll .
Election authorities in Liberia have begun releasing returns from the country 's first post-war election , in which large numbers turned out to elect a new president and parliament .
With ballots from about one percent of the polling stations counted , former World Bank economist Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has 24 percent of the vote .
Soccer ( football ) star George Weah , one of her opponents in the presidential race , has 21 percent .
The head of Liberia 's National Elections Commission , Frances Johnson Morris , says it could take three to seven days of vote counting before the new leader is known .
United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan and the U.S. ambassador to Liberia , Donald Booth , have praised Liberians for conducting a peaceful and orderly election .
Liberia 's vote is seen as a step toward restoring stability to a country beset by war and corruption .
The Philippines will keep its peacekeeping force in Haiti despite a sniper attack on a Filipino enlisted man Thursday .
Staff Sergeant Rodrigo Galam was standing guard outside the Christopher Hotel in Port-au-Prince when he came under sniper fire .
His body armor saved him from injury by deflecting two bullets .
The hotel will be the future headquarters of the UN peacekeeping forces in the country .
Philippine ambassador to the United Nations Lauro Baja said in a statement that the attack would not in any way alter Manila 's resolve to help bring peace and stability to Haiti .
The Philippines deployed 135 troops to Haiti in December .
IRAQ-POVERTY ( Washington )
Rep. Tony Hall , D-Ohio , urges the United Nations to allow a freer flow of food and medicine into Iraq .
Hall , who recently returned from a trip to Iraq , said U.N. economic sanctions have hurt millions of civilians there .
By AUSTIN ZALKIN .
The economy suffers from the typical Pacific island problems of geographic isolation , few resources , and a small population .
Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues , and the shortfall is made up by critically needed grants from New Zealand that are used to pay wages to public employees .
Niue has cut government expenditures by reducing the public service by almost half .
The agricultural sector consists mainly of subsistence gardening , although some cash crops are grown for export .
Industry consists primarily of small factories to process passion fruit , lime oil , honey , and coconut cream .
The sale of postage stamps to foreign collectors is an important source of revenue .
The island in recent years has suffered a serious loss of population because of emigration to New Zealand .
Efforts to increase GDP include the promotion of tourism and financial services , although the International Banking Repeal Act of 2002 resulted in the termination of all offshore banking licenses .
Economic aid from New Zealand in FY08/09 was US $ 5.7 million .
Niue suffered a devastating typhoon in January 2004 , which decimated nascent economic programs .
While in the process of rebuilding , Niue has been dependent on foreign aid .
British influence and control over what would become Nigeria and Africa 's most populous country grew through the 19th century .
A series of constitutions after World War II granted Nigeria greater autonomy ; independence came in 1960 .
Following nearly 16 years of military rule , a new constitution was adopted in 1999 , and a peaceful transition to civilian government was completed .
The government continues to face the daunting task of reforming a petroleum-based economy , whose revenues have been squandered through corruption and mismanagement , and institutionalizing democracy .
In addition , Nigeria continues to experience longstanding ethnic and religious tensions .
Although both the 2003 and 2007 presidential elections were marred by significant irregularities and violence , Nigeria is currently experiencing its longest period of civilian rule since independence .
The general elections of April 2007 marked the first civilian-to-civilian transfer of power in the country 's history .
In January 2010 , Nigeria assumed a nonpermanent seat on the UN Security Council for the 2010 - 11 term .
Britain conquered Burma over a period of 62 years ( 1824 - 1886 ) and incorporated it into its Indian Empire .
Burma was administered as a province of India until 1937 when it became a separate , self-governing colony ; independence from the Commonwealth was attained in 1948 .
Gen. NE WIN dominated the government from 1962 to 1988 , first as military ruler , then as self-appointed president , and later as political kingpin .
In September 1988 , the military deposed NE WIN and established a new ruling junta .
Despite multiparty legislative elections in 1990 that resulted in the main opposition party - the National League for Democracy ( NLD ) - winning a landslide victory , the junta refused to hand over power .
NLD leader and Nobel Peace Prize recipient AUNG SAN SUU KYI , who was under house arrest from 1989 to 1995 and 2000 to 2002 , was imprisoned in May 2003 and subsequently transferred to house arrest .
She was finally released in November 2010 .
After the ruling junta in August 2007 unexpectedly increased fuel prices , tens of thousands of Burmese marched in protest , led by prodemocracy activists and Buddhist monks .
In late September 2007 , the government brutally suppressed the protests , killing at least 13 people and arresting thousands for participating in the demonstrations .
Since then , the regime has continued to raid homes and monasteries and arrest persons suspected of participating in the pro-democracy protests .
Burma in early May 2008 was struck by Cyclone Nargis , which claimed over 1,38,000 dead and tens of thousands injured and homeless .
Despite this tragedy , the junta proceeded with its May constitutional referendum , the first vote in Burma since 1990 .
Parliamentary elections held in November 2010 , considered flawed by many in the international community , saw the junta 's Union Solidarity and Development Party garnering over 75 % of the seats .
Parliament convened in January 2011 and selected former Prime Minister THEIN SEIN as president .
The vast majority of national-level appointees named by THEIN SEIN are former or current military officers .
Grenada relies on tourism as its main source of foreign exchange especially since the construction of an international airport in 1985 .
Hurricanes Ivan ( 2004 ) and Emily ( 2005 ) severely damaged the agricultural sector - particularly nutmeg and cocoa cultivation - which had been a key driver of economic growth .
Grenada has rebounded from the devastating effects of the hurricanes but is now saddled with the debt burden from the rebuilding process .
Public debt-to-GDP is nearly 110 % , leaving the THOMAS administration limited room to engage in public investments and social spending .
Strong performances in construction and manufacturing , together with the development of tourism and an offshore financial industry , have also contributed to growth in national output ; however , economic growth was stagnant in 2010 after a sizeable contraction in 2009 , because of the global economic slowdown 's effects on tourism and remittances .
One day a countryman going to the nest of his Goose found there an egg all yellow and glittering .
When he took it up it was as heavy as lead and he was going to throw it away , because he thought a trick had been played upon him .
But he took it home on second thoughts , and soon found to his delight that it was an egg of pure gold .
Every morning the same thing occurred , and he soon became rich by selling his eggs .
As he grew rich he grew greedy ; and thinking to get at once all the gold the Goose could give , he killed it and opened it only to find nothing .
Greed oft o'er reaches itself .
A Doe had had the misfortune to lose one of her eyes , and could not see any one approaching her on that side .
So to avoid any danger she always used to feed on a high cliff near the sea , with her sound eye looking towards the land .
By this means she could see whenever the hunters approached her on land , and often escaped by this means .
But the hunters found out that she was blind of one eye , and hiring a boat rowed under the cliff where she used to feed and shot her from the sea .
""" Ah , "" cried she with her dying voice ,"
""" You can not escape your fate . """
A WOLF followed a flock of sheep for a long time and did not attempt to injure one of them .
The Shepherd at first stood on his guard against him , as against an enemy , and kept a strict watch over his movements .
But when the Wolf , day after day , kept in the company of the sheep and did not make the slightest effort to seize them , the Shepherd began to look upon him as a guardian of his flock rather than as a plotter of evil against it ; and when occasion called him one day into the city , he left the sheep entirely in his charge .
The Wolf , now that he had the opportunity , fell upon the sheep , and destroyed the greater part of the flock .
When the Shepherd returned to find his flock destroyed , he exclaimed :
""" I have been rightly served ; why did I trust my sheep to a Wolf ? '"
Documents released by the White House show that the Democratic National Committee asked Al Gore to make 140 calls to campaign donors , but he only connected on 56 of them .
The other 84 hung up because he sounds just like a dial tone .
When NASA first started sending up astronauts , they quickly discovered that ball-point pens would not work in zero gravity .
To combat this problem , NASA scientists spent a decade and $ 12 billion developing a pen that writes in zero gravity , upside down , underwater , on almost any surface including glass and at temperatures ranging from below freezing to over 300 C .
The Russians use a pencil .
Krygyz President Kurmanbek Bakiyev says he is ready for any new proposals from the U.S. government to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan .
Mr. Bakiyev made his comments to the British Broadcasting Corporation Wednesday .
But Kyrgyz officials said Thursday the government will not reverse its decision to evict U.S. forces from a key military base that supports Western troops in Afghanistan .
Last week , Kyrgyzstan ordered U.S. forces to leave the Manas air base within six months after President Bakiyev signed the decision into law .
"U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said he believes the issue is not "" closed , "" and that the U.S. will try to reach a new agreement with Kyrgyzstan ."
As an alternative , Gates said the U.S. is considering other supply routes .
Manas Air Base is currently the only U.S. military supply route in Central Asia .
A top U.S. military officer said Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have agreed to allow the transit of non-lethal U.S. cargo through their territory to Afghanistan .
Washington also has received permission from Russia and Kazakhstan to send supplies to Afghanistan by rail .
President Bakiyev had complained that Washington was not paying enough rent for the base .
He announced plans to close it after Russia pledged to give Kyrgyzstan about $ 2 billion in loans and aid .
Most U.S. and NATO shipments into Afghanistan have been arriving by road through Pakistan , but those convoys have increasingly come under attack from Taliban and al-Qaida militants .
Palestinian security officials say a clash between Israeli troops and Palestinian militants near the West Bank town of Jenin has left three militants dead .
The officials identified the victims as a local leader of the Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades and two members of Islamic Jihad .
They say the fighting erupted when Israeli troops raided Jenin early Thursday morning .
Wednesday , Israel 's military warned it may bombard the Gaza Strip town of Beit Hanoun , if necessary , to stop Palestinian rocket fire into Israel .
The militants have been firing rockets from the area , despite earlier pledges to stop such attacks .
In Washington , a State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has been pressing both sides to end the violence .
President Bush is to meet with Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas at the White House next month for talks on peace efforts .
The U.S. military says the death toll from Thursday 's suicide bomb attack on a Shi'ite funeral in the northern city of Mosul has risen to 50 .
More than 80 other people were injured in the blast , many critically .
No group has claimed responsibility for the attack .
Friday , grieving families buried their dead in private , canceling plans for a mass funeral procession because of fears it would be attacked .
On the political front , Iraq 's main Shi'ite alliance , which swept the January 30 elections , is finalizing a deal with Kurdish leaders to form a coalition ahead of the new parliament 's first session next Wednesday .
And a Polish newspaper quoted Warsaw 's defense minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski , as saying Poland will withdraw several hundred of its troops from Iraq in July .
The leaders of the 53-member African Union have opened their two-day summit , where they will focus on debt relief and a greater voice in the United Nations .
The African summit beginning Monday is being held just days before the leaders of the Group of Eight industrialized nations gather in Scotland to discuss debt relief for the war-torn , poverty-stricken continent .
The G-8 summit is expected to give final approval to an agreement that forgives $ 40 billion of debt held by the world 's poorest nations , mostly in Africa .
The AU leaders are also expected to support a proposal calling for the continent to get two permanent seats and two non-permanent seats on an expanded U.N. Security Council .
A secular coalition led by Iraq 's former prime minister has taken a slight lead in overall votes as ballot counting from parliamentary elections continues - but it remains behind in the key provincial tally .
With about 93 percent of the ballots counted , election officials said Saturday that former Prime Minister Ayad Allawi 's secularists lead the Shi'ite coalition headed by current Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki by about 8,000 votes .
The lead has repeatedly shifted between Mr. Allawi and Prime Minister Maliki since the March 7 vote .
But Mr. Maliki 's State of Law coalition is still ahead in seven of Iraq 's 18 provinces - compared to five provinces held by Mr. Allawi 's Iraqiya alliance .
Seats in Iraq 's 325-member parliament are won according to how well a coalition does in a province , not according to the overall vote .
Officials say they hope to have final results by the end of the month .
Pakistan 's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz has arrived in New Delhi for talks with Indian leaders to review the on-going peace process between the two neighbors .
A day before his arrival , Mr. Aziz warned not to expect a breakthrough during his talks with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , which he described as part of a continuing dialogue .
On Monday , Mr. Aziz said India 's reduction in troops in disputed Kashmir has helped reduce tensions .
But he added that a permanent solution is likely to be some time off .
Mr. Aziz also plans to meet Kashmiri separatist leaders during his visit .
His trip to India is part of a regional tour as the outgoing chairman of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation , or SAARC .
According to the World Bank , 300 million people in China - a number roughly equal to the population of the United States - live on less than a dollar a day .
As China 's government works to control record high inflation , the country 's poor are struggling to put food on the table .
And the recent earthquake , officials say , is likely to fuel even higher inflation because of the damage to the country 's agriculture .
Sam Beattie reports from Beijing .
German authorities have released a Lebanese man arrested in connection with an alleged plot against Iraqi interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi .
But prosecutors have issued arrest orders against three others accused of planning to attack Mr. Allawi during his visit to Germany last week .
Prosecutors identified the three as suspected members of the Islamic militant group Ansar al-Islam , which U.S. authorities have linked to al-Qaida .
Authorities detained the suspects in several German cities just hours before a meeting Friday between Mr. Allawi and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder in Berlin .
The Iraqi leader changed his travel plans after the alleged plot was uncovered .
U.S. embassy officials in Iraq say an American teen who skipped school and flew to Baghdad without his parents ' permission is on his way home .
In a brief statement Friday , the U.S. consul-general in Baghdad announced that 16-year-old Farris Hassan has left Iraq .
The boy , of Iraqi descent , says he went to the war-torn country to pursue his interest in news reporting , cultivated in a high school journalism class .
The student from Florida bought a plane ticket and left the United States on December 11 , arriving in Kuwait , where he called his parents .
He later flew to Iraq on a flight from Lebanon .
Earlier this week , the boy entered the Iraqi offices of the Associated Press news agency .
Journalists immediately called the U.S. embassy , where officials had been looking for the teen , at his parents ' request .
The Israeli army says troops raided the West Bank town of Jenin Monday , arresting eight militants suspected of involvement in making crude rockets and mortars .
The army says the detained men are members of the Islamic Jihad militant group .
It says one soldier was slightly wounded during the operation .
On Sunday , Israel delayed handing over the town of Qalqilya to Palestinian security control , saying the Palestinians have failed to move against militants in Jericho and Tulkarem - the two towns already transferred to them .
Qalqilya is the third of five West Bank towns Israel is to hand over to Palestinian security control under an agreement the two sides reached last month .
There is no word on when the remaining two towns - Jenin and Ramallah - will be transferred .
A powerful earthquake has shaken the area around Tibet in China .
The U.S. Geological Survey says the quake had a 6.9 magnitude and was centered about 245 kilometers north of Qamdo prefecture , which borders China 's Sichuan province .
At least one strong aftershock with a 5.2 magnitude struck about 30 minutes later .
There were no early reports about damage or injuries .
A massive 7.9 quake hit Sichuan province in 2008 , killing close to 90,000 people .
Officials at the United States Embassy in Nepal say they are alarmed by the possibility of an alliance between Maoist rebels and political parties in the Himalayan kingdom .
An official statement released by the Embassy says the United States supports the restoration of democracy in Nepal as well as the prevention of a Maoist takeover .
Nepal 's seven major political parties recently offered to talk to the Maoists about forming a broad front opposed to King Gyanendra on the condition that the rebels end violent attacks aimed at civilians .
The king assumed emergency powers earlier this year and ousted the kingdom 's four-party government for failing to make progress in the battle against the rebels , who have been fighting since 1996 to overthrow the monarchy .
Some economists say cyclone damage to Burma 's key rice-growing areas might cut supplies of the key food and lead to a further increase in global rice prices .
Burma , also known as Myanmar , was expected to export about 4,00,000 metric tons of rice this year .
The President of the Thai Rice Exporters Association , Chookiat Ophaswongse , says in a story by the Bloomberg financial news service that , Burma may now have to import rice instead .
Rice is the staple food for about half of the world 's population and its prices hit record highs in late April after some other rice-producing nations put restrictions on some exports .
While in Pakistan , President Bush tried to learn the game of cricket and how it differs from baseball .
Mr. Bush bowled and batted several times on a small cricket pitch set up on the grounds of the U.S. embassy , as students from the Islamabad College for Boys looked on and encouraged him .
He got a quick lesson on how to hold the bat from the chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board , Shaharyar Khan .
Khan also explained to the former owner of a Texas baseball team how cricket , the popular sport of the old British empire , differs from baseball .
Pakistani cricket team captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and famous batsman Salman Butt were also on hand to share their expertise with Mr. Bush .
The government of Nepal is responding to international criticism of controversial municipal elections held earlier this week .
A statement from Nepal 's foreign ministry Saturday called the criticism objectionable and unacceptable .
"The statement further urged foreign governments to refrain from making what it described as "" insolent comments "" about Nepal 's internal affairs ."
The response followed allegations by several other countries , including India , Japan , Britain and the United States , who all said Wednesday 's vote was flawed .
Seven major opposition parties boycotted the vote and the election sparked almost daily anti-government demonstrations .
The vice chairman of Nepal 's cabinet , the royal council of ministers , Tulsi Giri , is promising to proceed with general elections in April regardless of whether opposition parties participate .
King Gyanendra took absolute power last year with a promise to crush the Maoist rebellion and restore multi-party democracy .
Russian energy giant Gazprom has blasted European calls to ratify an agreement to guarantee Russian gas shipments to Europe .
Gazprom deputy chief executive Alexander Medvedev Tuesday criticized a proposed energy charter between the EU and Russia , saying the document no longer represents market conditions .
Part of the charter would require Russia to effectively allow third-party access to the state-owned Gazprom 's export pipeline network .
Europe currently relies on Russia for a quarter of its natural gas .
Gazprom officials have threatened to sell the gas elsewhere if European countries move to limit the company 's expansion .
Earlier this year , Gazprom temporarily cut gas supplies to Ukraine in a price dispute .
The blockage sharply reduced deliveries to other European countries , prompting calls from some EU members for applying the bloc 's anti-monopoly rules to the Russian firm .
Former Croatian General Ante Gotovina , who many Croats still consider a hero , goes on trial Tuesday in The Hague for war crimes committed during the closing months of the war in Croatia in 1995 .
The United Nations War Crimes Tribunal has charged Gotovina and two other ex-generals - Ivan Cermak and Mladen Markac - with doing nothing while soldiers murdered at least 37 ethnic Serbs in Krajina .
The troops also burned and plundered villages , and stabbed civilians who tried to escape .
The court says some family members were forced to watch their relatives being killed .
All three defendants have pleaded not guilty .
Gotovina was indicted in 2001 but was at large until his arrest four years later in the Canary Islands .
Many Croats regard Gotovina as a national hero for re-taking Croatian land seized by Serb rebels .
Western and Muslim leaders and activists are meeting in Austria for a conference on Islam and ways to promote understanding between Muslims and non-Muslims .
"Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik says the three-day "" Islam in a Pluralistic World "" is also aimed at increasing dialogue between different religions ."
Scheduled speakers include Afghan President Hamid Karzai and Iraqi President Jalal Talabani who is expected to discuss Islam 's role in a world of interwoven interests and economies .
Other attendees include former Iranian president Mohammed Khatami and Iranian human rights attorney Shirin Ebadi , who won the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize .
The conference comes as the riots in France have forced new dialogue on how Muslims are viewed in European society .
If the housing crisis is not pressing enough , rising credit card debt is creating more hardship for many Americans .
An analysis by the newspaper USA Today shows credit card debt grew between 2001 and early 2006 , fueled in part , by rising home equity , the value of a home minus its outstanding loans .
Some consumer advocates blame the banking industry for taking advantage of homeowners who now find themselves in a credit trap .
Al-Qaida 's number two leader has appeared in a video praising Abu Musab al-Zarqawi , the leader of al-Qaida in Iraq killed on June seventh by a U.S. air strike .
Ayman al-Zawahiri 's video aired Friday on Al Jazeera .
In it , Zawahiri appeared in front of a portrait of Zarqawi .
He called Zarqawi the prince of martyrs and said that no member of al-Qaida would die without avenging him .
He also criticized several Iraqi government officials and the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq .
Zawahiri did not mention Zarqawi 's successor as leader of al-Qaida in Iraq , Abu Hamza al-Muhajer .
The omission may mean the tape was made before Muhajer was appointed or that Zawahiri does not endorse him .
Zawahiri , along with al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden , is thought to be hiding somewhere along the rugged border dividing Afghanistan and Pakistan .
"Thousands of Cubans gathered around the U.S. diplomatic office in Havana Tuesday , to demonstrate against what President Fidel Castro has called "" provocations "" from Washington ."
The marchers are protesting an electronic message board posted on the side of the building that since last week has been displaying passages from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and quotes from slain American civil rights leader , Martin Luther King .
Mr. Castro called for the march on Sunday during a speech on national television , accusing Washington of human rights violations in Iraq and Afghanistan .
Tuesday 's march also was timed to coincide with the court appearance of Cuban exile Luis Posada Carriles , who is being held at a U.S. federal detention center on immigration charges .
Cuba says the Bush administration is protecting Posada Carriles , who is wanted for his alleged role in the bombing of a Cuban airliner in 1976 .
Nigeria 's president has inaugurated the nation 's energy board with a promise to commission the country 's first nuclear power plant within 10 to 12 years .
President Olusegun Obasanjo said Monday in the capital , Abuja , that the nuclear capacity would be strictly for peaceful purposes to strengthen the nation 's electrical system .
"He stressed that Nigeria is "" unequivocally committed to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . """
Mr. Obasanjo made the comments to the Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission , which he chairs .
He said the commission will be working to enhance electricity capabilities for Nigeria 's impoverished population .
Israel says clashes have broken out between Israeli forces and Hezbollah guerrillas on the Lebanon border for a second straight day .
The Israeli army said the fighting in the Shebaa Farms region erupted early Thursday , and was continuing .
But , a Hezbollah spokesman told Reuters news service in Beirut that guerrilla fighters did not respond to Israeli firing .
Wednesday , one Israeli soldier and one Hezbollah fighter were killed , when guerillas fired rockets on Israeli military positions , and Israeli warplanes bombed targets in a village nearby .
Shebaa Farms has been the focus of Hezbollah attacks and Israeli counter-attacks since Israel withdrew from southern Lebanon in 2000 , after a 22-year occupation .
Lebanon and Syria say the area is Lebanese .
But cartographers say it belongs to a part of Syria that has been occupied by Israel since the 1967 war .
South Africa 's ruling party has promised to improve services and create jobs for the country 's poor majority .
President Thabo Mbeki unveiled a $ 65 billion spending plan Sunday at a rally launching the African National Congress ' campaign for municipal elections .
The ANC 's election manifesto says the money would be used to build roads , dams , power plants , rail networks , and communications infrastructure .
It says every household will have access to running water , electricity , and decent sanitation by 2012 .
The ANC has ruled South Africa since the end of apartheid in 1994 but faces growing dissent over poor basic services and Mr. Mbeki 's firing of popular Deputy President Jacob Zuma .
The ANC says Mr. Zuma , who faces rape and corruption charges , will still help the party campaign for the March 1 elections .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and his challenger , Angela Merkel , are campaigning in the eastern city of Dresden ahead of Sunday 's vote for the only seat left undecided in this month 's parliamentary elections .
Both sides hope to gain an edge in talks on a new government after the inconclusive September 18 balloting left Ms. Merkel 's Christian Democrats just three seats ahead of the Chancellor 's Social Democrats .
"The two sides have been discussing forming a so-called "" Grand Coalition "" of their two parties after neither side could get enough backing in parliament to form a government ."
But the talks are stalled because both Chancellor Schroeder and Ms. Merkel continue to claim the right to be the next chancellor .
Sunday 's Dresden vote was delayed for two weeks by the death of a candidate from a far-right party shortly before the election .
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has confirmed that he will not be part of the country 's next government to be headed by Christian Democratic Union leader Angela Merkel .
Mr. Schroeder made the comment Wednesday in a speech to trade union members in his hometown of Hanover .
Ms. Merkel 's conservative party narrowly beat Mr. Schroeder 's Social Democrats in the September 18 parliamentary elections .
The two parties agreed to a coalition deal Monday under which Ms. Merkel will become the new chancellor while the Social Democrats control a majority of cabinet posts .
In Washington , a White House spokesman says President Bush telephoned Ms. Merkel to congratulate her on her selection as chancellor .
Mr. Bush said he looks forward to working with her to build a strong foundation of U.S.-German relations .
A new United Nations report says insurgent and terrorist violence in Afghanistan sharply increased last year , with more than 8,000 conflict-related deaths .
In his report issued Monday , U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said he is concerned that a fifth of those killed were civilians .
He also cited increased attacks on humanitarian workers and aid convoys .
Mr. Ban said Taliban insurgents , related armed groups and drug trafficking all represent serious threats to Afghanistan 's stability , with violence spreading to the previously calm northwest .
His report also highlights the way the conflict has changed from a conventional war between western forces and the Taliban to an insurgency using suicide attacks , assassinations , abductions and roadside bombings .
As expected , Mr. Ban recommended that the mandate for the U.N. mission in Afghanistan - which expires later this month - be extended for another year .
The U.S. military says one U.S. Marine and one Afghan government soldier have been killed in fighting with militants in eastern Afghanistan .
"A military statement says four other Afghan soldiers were wounded in the clash Thursday as they tried to "" disrupt enemy forces "" in Kunar province to prepare for next month 's parliamentary elections ."
The wounded Afghan soldiers were taken to a nearby U.S. base in the city of Asadabad for treatment .
Two of them later returned to duty .
The deaths came on the same day that two U.S. soldiers were killed by a roadside bomb in the southern province of Kandahar .
Violence in Afghanistan has surged in recent months as Taleban insurgents try to sabotage next month 's parliamentary polls .
Rescuers in Latin America have resumed their search Friday for survivors of mudslides and floodwaters triggered by Hurricane Stan .
At least 223 people have been killed and many others are missing in Latin America after several days of heavy rains , mudslides and flooding from the storm , which came ashore Tuesday on Mexico 's eastern Gulf Coast .
Rescuers in Guatemala Thursday pulled 40 bodies from a mudslide about 100 kilometers west of Guatemala City .
Scores of other people were killed in Mexico and Central America after the storm ripped through the region , knocking down power lines and ripping apart houses .
Tens of thousands of people fled their homes , and many remain homeless .
The United Nations says it is rushing assistance to El Salvador and Costa Rica , and remains ready to mobilize international support for emergency relief and recovery efforts .
Burmese officials say ethnic Karen rebels attacked a convoy of trucks and buses on a highway in southern Burma , killing eight people and wounding 15 others .
Officials say a gunfight broke out between security forces and the Karen National Union rebels during the pre-dawn attack Thursday on two trucks and 12 passenger buses along the Dawei-Ye highway between Dawei and Rangoon .
Among the dead were a university student and a teacher .
The vehicles included two buses carrying students and lecturers from Dawei University .
The rebels are reported to have taken about $ 3,400 in cash and jewelry from passengers before the gunmen fled .
The KNU is the only major rebel group not to have signed a cease-fire with the military government .
"Pakistan 's President Asif Ali Zardari is meeting Britain 's Prime Minister David Cameron on Thursday for the first time since the British leader 's remarks suggesting that Islamabad is promoting "" the export of terror . """
Mr. Zardari will have dinner with Mr. Cameron at the British prime minister 's country retreat Chequers , outside London .
The leaders hold formal talks on Friday .
During a trip to India last week , Prime Minister Cameron suggested Pakistan was not doing enough to counter terrorist groups within its borders that threaten India , Afghanistan and other nations .
The comments angered Pakistan .
"Earlier this week President Zardari told the French newspaper Le Monde that Pakistan is paying the "" highest price of human life "" in the war on terrorism ."
Mr. Cameron has stood by his remarks .
President Zardari traveled to Britain from France on Tuesday .
European Union officials have confirmed the first outbreak of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird flu in an EU country this year .
European Commission officials say laboratory tests have confirmed the presence of the deadly strain in geese found dead in Csongrad County in southeastern Hungary .
They say tests were conducted because of an abnormally high mortality rate among the birds .
Hungarian officials have slaughtered all 3,000 birds in the affected flock .
They also have set up a three-kilometer protection zone and a 10-kilometer surveillance zone around the area .
The discovery is the first in an EU country since last August .
EU experts are to meet Friday to review the situation .
Meanwhile , Croatia has banned poultry imports from Hungary following the announcement .
Bird flu has killed more than 150 people worldwide since 2003 , mostly in Asia .
The U.S. men 's national football team has completed a 10-day training camp in Cary , North Carolina ahead of the World Cup finals next month in Germany .
U.S. coach Bruce Arena says he is satisfied that his team is healthy and ready for the first of three tuneup games .
At Sunday 's final practice , Arena reminded his players numerous times not to fight too hard for the ball and save their aggression for World Cup games .
The Americans host Morocco on Tuesday in Nashville , Tennessee before facing Venezuela on Friday in Cleveland , Ohio .
The last warmup game is next Sunday against Latvia in East Hartford , Connecticut .
The Americans , who made an impressive quarterfinal run at the 2002 World Cup , will face the Czech Republic , Italy and Ghana next month at the global football tournament .
Russia has criticized a recent White House report that calls for greater democratic reforms in Russia 's neighbors .
In a statement Monday , Russia 's foreign ministry said the report showed that U.S. officials are seeking an active democracy-building role in the region .
"It warned that , in its words , "" artificial "" and "" forceful "" attempts at planting democracy in other countries may not be successful ."
It added that no one has a monopoly on interpreting the basis of democracy .
The statement follows the release last week of President Bush 's new national security strategy , which criticized Russia for falling off the path to democracy .
"Referring to Russia , it said recent trends "" regrettably point toward a diminishing commitment to democratic freedoms and institutions . """
Mr. Bush said future relations will depend on Russia 's domestic and foreign policies .
A top international security organization has urged the candidates in Kyrgyzstan 's July 10 presidential election to agree to a code of conduct for the sake of the country 's stability .
The statement by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe comes more than two months after a popular uprising ousted President Askar Akayev .
Mr. Akayev fled to Russia in March after a revolt spurred by complaints over vote-rigging in parliamentary elections earlier this year .
Earlier Wednesday , several dozen young people forced their way into Kyrgyzstan 's Supreme Court building and evicted supporters of rival political groups who occupied the building since April .
Witnesses say several people were injured in the fighting .
The activists forced to flee the building backed politicians who had been disqualified by courts from running in this year 's parliamentary elections .
A Venezuela-based television station begins limited broadcasts Sunday as a counter to what its creators say is biased media coverage by European and U.S.-run channels .
Telesur is a joint venture funded by Venezuela , Argentina , Cuba and Uruguay .
Organizers say they aim to develop a hemispheric television network to provide programs from a Latin American perspective .
The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday passed an amendment authorizing radio and television broadcasts to Venezuela .
The amendment was to a bill authorizing State Department programs .
The amendment 's author , Florida Republican Connie Mack , said the U.S. broadcasts would offer what he called a consistently accurate , objective and comprehensive source of news to Venezuela .
The measure still requires Senate approval .
"Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says his government will "" jam the signal "" of any broadcasts from the United States ."
Ukrainian lawmakers have set Tuesday for a repeat vote on Yulia Tymoshenko 's nomination as prime minster .
Members of the unicameral parliament Verkhovna Rada also agreed Friday to vote by raising hands to ensure transparency .
Ms. Tymoshenko failed to win the absolute majority by one vote Tuesday .
Ms. Tymoshenko accused her political rivals of tampering with the electronic voting system , saying the device failed to register two votes cast in her favor .
The vote will follow President Viktor Yushchenko 's decision Wednesday to again nominate her for the post .
Belgian tennis star Justine Henin-Hardenne has won the women 's title at the Sydney International tournament in Australia .
She lost the first set and trailed Italian Francesca Schiavone 04-Jan in the second set before rallying to win Friday 's final , 04-Jun , 07-May , 07-May .
Two years ago , Henin-Hardenne won this tournament and went on to take the season 's first major at the Australian Open two weeks later .
This year 's Australian Open begins Monday .
Earlier in the day , in a men 's semifinal , American James Blake overcame a 04-Feb first-set deficit to upset second-seeded Nikolay Davydenko of Russia , 06-Apr , 06-Feb .
Blake will play the Sydney final on Saturday against Russia 's Igor Andreev , who beat Andreas Seppi of Italy , 06-Feb , 02-Jun , 06-Feb .
Andreev and Blake will be vying for their fourth career ATP tournament wins .
Ukrainian troops have joined their U.S. counterparts in NATO military exercises as tensions mount over the aspirations of former Soviet republics to enter the alliance .
"The two-week NATO "" Sea Breeze "" exercises along the Black Sea coast also include forces from Armenia , Azerbaijan , Georgia , and key countries of western Europe ."
Turkey , Macedonia and Latvia are also participating .
The exercises include naval and air maneuvers as well as large-scale armored exercises .
Separate maneuvers are being held this week in Georgia .
Armenian , Azerbaijani , Ukrainian and U.S. troops are participating .
Small groups of anti-NATO protesters were reported encamped along the Ukrainian coast .
Ukraine and Georgia are actively seeking NATO membership , despite official warnings that Moscow will not tolerate an additional NATO presence on its borders .
Last month , Ukraine 's pro-Western leadership hosted a NATO delegation , which was also confronted by several hundred anti-alliance protesters .
"New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg says a strike by the city 's transit union is "" morally reprehensible . """
The union went on strike early this Tuesday morning after negotiations broke down with the state 's transportation authority .
The walkout will shutdown the city 's huge bus and subway network , and throw the daily commute of its seven million customers into chaos .
Mr. Bloomberg says he will ask a judge to take legal action against the union .
Contract talks between the two sides have deadlocked over such issues as wage increases and at what age new employees will be eligible to receive a full pension .
"Union head Roger Toussaint calls the dispute a fight over whether "" hard work will be rewarded with a decent retirement . """
An emergency plan is in effect to prevent massive traffic jams on New York 's streets .
Former U.S. president Bill Clinton has signed an agreement with the Cambodian government to expand medical treatment for children living with H.I.V. and AIDS .
Mr. Clinton and Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen signed the deal Monday in the capital , Phnom Penh .
The former president is in Cambodia to tour AIDS-related projects and local organizations supported by his development group , the Clinton Foundation H.I.V./AIDS Initiative .
"Mr. Clinton praised the government for making "" steadfast "" efforts to fight H.I.V . He said there is hope Cambodia can be a model for the rest of Asia and possibly the world ."
Cambodia has reduced adult infection rates from about three percent in 1998 , to just under two percent in 2004 .
The country still has one of the highest AIDS prevalence rates in the region .
Prime Minister Hun Sen says Mr. Clinton 's visit will raise awareness about H.I.V. and help prevent discrimination against people living with the virus .
Britain 's defense ministry has launched what it calls an urgent military police investigation into alleged abuse of Iraqi prisoners caught on videotape .
A ministry statement says it condemns all acts of abuse and brutality and treats allegations of wrongdoing very seriously .
British television broadcast the videotape Sunday after it was released by the News of the World newspaper .
The British soldiers are seen beating detained young Iraqi protesters with batons and kicking them .
The newspaper says the tape was shot in 2004 in southern Iraq .
British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Sunday the incident will be fully investigated .
He says the overwhelming majority of British troops in Iraq are doing a great job helping Iraq become a democracy .
A medical official in the Somali capital , Mogadishu , says at least 17 people have been killed in fighting between Islamist militants and government forces .
Ali Muse , who is head of Mogadishu 's ambulance service , says at least 45 others were wounded in the fighting Wednesday .
Mogadishu residents say insurgents attacked African Union peacekeepers , prompting soldiers to launch an artillery barrage .
Many of those killed died when shells landed in the city 's busy Bakara market .
Insurgent groups al-Shabab and Hizbul Islam are trying to topple the government and establish a strict Islamic state .
The current government controls only parts of Mogadishu and relies on AU peacekeepers in order to stay in power .
Somalia has experienced nearly two decades of violence and lawlessness since the fall of the last functioning central government .
The founder of Microsoft , Bill Gates , has received a rousing welcome in Vietnam by thousands of university students eager for a glimpse of the world 's richest man .
Students climbed trees and pushed through crowds at Hanoi University Saturday , where Gates was delivering a speech on information technology .
Earlier , Gates met Prime Minister Phan Van Khai and President Tran Duc Luong , who both took time away from the ruling Communist Party National Congress .
During the meeting , the Vietnamese leaders and Gates signed an agreement to use Microsoft software in Vietnam 's government systems .
Gates ' trip to Hanoi is seen as another major boost for Vietnam 's high-tech sector .
Earlier this year , the government landed a high tech deal when leading chipmaker Intel Corporation announced it was building a plant in the country .
The World Health Organization says a massive shortfall of a key malaria drug will last well into next year , leaving poor countries with about half of what they need to fight the disease .
The WHO says Chinese suppliers have not shipped enough of a key ingredient used to make anti-malaria drugs to companies which manufacture the combination therapy .
The ingredient , called artemisinin , is extracted from a plant primarily grown in China .
The WHO says it will set up a system of priorities to deliver the drug to those who need it most .
It says the combination therapy is the most effective way to fight the deadliest form of malaria , called falciparum .
The mosquito-born disease has become resistant to treatment with older , more traditional medication .
The WHO estimates that malaria kills more than one million people worldwide , with more than 90 percent of fatalities occurring in sub-Saharan Africa .
Kandani Ngwira , who works for a newspaper that publishes scandals involving public figures , says he has been taken into custody and not told why
A Malawi journalist who works for a newspaper that publishes scandals involving public figures has confirmed his own arrest .
Kandani Ngwira contacted media outlets on Tuesday , saying he had been taken into custody and not told why .
Ngwira works for the Weekly Times , a newspaper that the Malawian government tried to ban in November of last year .
National police spokesman , Willy Mwaluka , says he had no information about Ngwira 's detention .
The journalist says he was arrested in Blantyre and transported to the capital , Lilongwe .
Blantyre Newspapers Limited , which owns the Weekly Times says it is providing a lawyer for Ngwira .
Israel and some Palestinian militant groups say they are willing to observe a cease-fire , if certain conditions are met .
The Al Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades , the armed wing of the Fatah movement , said Saturday it would agree to a truce if Israel promises to release Palestinian prisoners and stop military operations , including raids to make arrests , and targeted killings of Palestinian militants .
Other groups have made similar comments .
For its part , Israel signaled it could ease military operations against Palestinian gunmen if they halt attacks against Israelis .
The conciliatory messages follow efforts by Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas to persuade militants to end their campaign of anti-Israeli attacks so he can negotiate for a Palestinian state on Israeli-occupied lands .
India 's industrial production has increased at its fastest pace in 16 months , another sign that Asia 's third largest economy is pulling out of the international financial crisis .
The government statistics agency said Wednesday that manufacturing output surged 7.8 percent in June from a year earlier .
The 16 nations using the euro as their currency have not done as well .
Eurozone industrial output fell 17 percent in June , compared to last year .
Job cuts and a shorter supply of bank loans has weakened consumer demand , depressing Europe 's industrial output .
Data released in London Wednesday showed Britain 's unemployment rate has hit a 14-year high , with 2.43 million people out of work .
The number of jobless increased by 7.8 percent ( 2,20,000 jobs ) in the three months to June .
A senior Russian veterinary official says a bird and animal market in southern Moscow is the source of last week 's bird flu outbreak on nearby farms .
Alexei Alexeyenko said Sunday the section of the market where the outbreak began has been closed .
Tests are also being carried out on the dead birds to determine if they carried the H5N1 strain , which is deadly to humans .
Russian authorities say they found bird flu on two farms south and north of Moscow .
They say they do not yet know the origin of the dead birds found in the market , but the Moscow region 's chief veterinary official , Valery Sitnikov , said bio-terrorism can not be ruled out .
The H5N1 bird flu strain has killed 167 people since 2003 .
Most of the victims were Asians .
North Korea has invited Washington 's chief U.S. nuclear negotiator to Pyongyang to discuss the North 's nuclear program .
The North 's Deputy Foreign Minister , Choe Su Hon , said Pyongyang would impose no conditions on a visit by U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Christopher Hill .
Washington has not commented on the proposal .
"Also Thursday , North Korea said the United States should provide it with civilian nuclear reactors "" as soon as possible "" to build confidence in Monday 's nuclear disarmament agreement ."
Washington has rejected that demand .
Meanwhile , Japan 's Kyodo news agency reports Pyongyang has agreed to talks with Japan in October on a range of issues , including Pyongyang 's nuclear weapons program .
Their disputes include North Korea 's missile program and the unresolved cases of Japanese citizens kidnapped by Pyongyang in the 1970s and 80s .
Lawyers for a former California gang leader have asked the state supreme court to block his execution Tuesday , while California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger considers granting clemency .
"Stanley "" Tookie "" Williams has been convicted of four murders and was the co-founder of the infamous Crips street gang ."
His case has attracted international attention because Williams is the author of a series of children 's books warning young people about the dangers of gangs .
His lawyers argue that the books are evidence that Williams has turned his life around during his 24 years in prison .
Williams has apologized for his gang activity , but denies committing the 1979 murders .
In an earlier appeal , the California high court upheld Williams ' conviction .
Mr. Schwarzenegger 's decision on clemency is expected Monday .
In two other death penalty cases he has refused clemency appeals .
Saturday is the last day for Iran 's presidential hopefuls to apply as candidates in the June election .
Applicants on the final day include former state broadcasting chief Ali Larijani , a conservative who once was an advisor to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei .
Former foreign minister Ibrahim Yazdi also signed up for the ballot to elect a successor to President Mohammad Khatami .
Hundreds of people have applied to run in the election - among them highly favored two-time president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani .
The past chief of the national police , Bager Qalibaf , and the mayor of Tehran , Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , are also seeking the presidency .
After the registration period ends , applicants will be screened by the Guardians Council , which will determine the make-up of the presidential ballot .
The leader of the Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah is blaming President Bush for last week 's sectarian violence in Lebanon .
Speaking to a large crowd in Beirut Tuesday , Hassan Nasrallah accused Mr. Bush and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice of seeking to spark a civil war in Lebanon .
He also asserted that the Bush administration ordered Israel to attack Hezbollah positions in the country last year .
The July-August war between Israel and Hezbollah killed about 1,200 people in Lebanon and about 160 Israelis .
On Monday , President Bush said Hezbollah , along with Syria and Iran , are responsible for last week 's violence in Lebanon between government supporters and the Hezbollah-led opposition .
Seven people were killed and more than 100 wounded .
Some in Lebanon are concerned that sectarian tensions will spin out of control and might lead to a civil war like the one that raged from 1975 to 1990 .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says it is very unlikely that security operations in Iraq would be transferred from U.S.-led troops to U.N. peacekeepers .
Speaking on the sidelines of a security conference in Munich , Mr. Annan said at this stage , the United Nations hopes to help more with Iraq 's post-war reconstruction .
Mr. Annan told the British Broadcasting Corporation the world body could help with training ministry officials and rebuilding the war-damaged country .
On another issue , Mr. Annan said he has no plans to resign over allegations of bribes and kickbacks in the U.N.-supervised oil-for-food program in Iraq .
Competitive diving is one of the sports guaranteed to attract a large audience at the Summer Olympics in Beijing .
Recreational diving is also a growing amateur sport in the U.S.
Unfortunately , the joy of jumping off the diving board at the local swimming pool has too often been spoiled by a trip to the emergency room .
VOA 's Melinda Smith has details of a new study showing that at least 6,000 children in the U.S. are hurt every year in diving accidents .
Venezuelan authorities say a new outbreak of fighting among inmates at a crowded prison has left six more prisoners dead .
Earlier this week , 16 prisoners were killed at Uribana prison when rival gangs fought for control of two cell blocks .
National guard troops were called to maintain order at the prison , located west of the capital , Caracas .
Riots , murders and other violence are common in Venezuela 's overcrowded prisons .
An official with Canada 's spy agency has said that potential terrorists already reside inside the country , and that some have been schooled in al-Qaida training camps .
Jack Hooper , the deputy director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service , spoke Monday in Ottawa to a legislative committee studying Canada 's involvement in Afghanistan .
Hooper told the lawmakers Canada faces a threat from home-grown terrorists .
He said that all the circumstances which produced the London transit bombing are present now in Canada .
Hooper said that many of the home-grown terrorists are Canadian citizens .
He also cautioned that his agency has been able to investigate only 10 percent of the immigrants who have come to Canada during the past five years from Pakistan and Afghanistan .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has met twice with the ailing former Cuban leader Fidel Castro during a short visit to Havana .
Cuba 's state-run media says the first meeting took place after Mr. Chavez arrived Friday night .
The Venezuelan leader met again with Mr. Castro and his brother , Cuban President Raul Castro , on Saturday before Mr. Chavez 's afternoon departure .
"The former Cuban president and Mr. Chavez were reported to have discussed their countries ' "" fruitful ties "" and the global economic crisis and its consequences for Latin America and the Caribbean ."
No images of Fidel Castro were released from the meetings .
He has not been seen in public since 2006 when he underwent surgery and ceded power to his younger brother .
The trip to Cuba was President Chavez 's first since winning a referendum this month that removes term limits on his presidency and allows him to seek re-election .
The Organization of American States says it will send election observers to monitor Suriname 's parliamentary elections to be held May 25 .
The OAS and Suriname officials agreed to the monitors Friday in Washington .
The ruling coalition in Suriname faces opposition from the National Democratic Party , which says its leader , former dictator Desi Bouterse , would become president if the party wins the elections .
The United States has warned that relations with Suriname would suffer if Bouterse takes power .
He was convicted in the Netherlands six years ago for illegal drug trafficking , and sentenced to 11 years in prison .
However , he was never sent to the Netherlands as the two countries do not have an extradition agreement .
Bouterse , who is an elected member of parliament , led a successful military coup in Suriname in 1980 , and ruled the South American country for nearly a decade .
The Vatican says Pope John Paul has canceled his scheduled audiences for the next few days because he has the flu .
The Roman Catholic pontiff also canceled his audiences on Monday .
It is the first time in more than one year the pope has had to miss an audience due to illness .
John Paul began to fall ill on Sunday , and doctors advised him to cut back on his activities .
The Vatican Tuesday issued a brief statement announcing the cancellations on the pope 's schedule , but did not release any specific information about his condition .
The increasingly frail , 84-year-old pope suffers from Parkinson 's disease and arthritis , but continues to maintain a full travel schedule , hold audiences and perform his papal duties .
President Bush has called on Congress to make his tax cuts permanent , saying they will keep the economy on track to cut the deficit in half by 2009 .
In a radio address to the nation Saturday , Mr. Bush said some Democrats in Congress want to repeal the tax cuts or let them expire over the next few years .
Mr. Bush said the cuts instituted in 2001 have put $ 880 billion back into the hands of American citizens .
He said giving citizens more spending power helps the economy grow .
Mr. Bush said eliminating the tax cuts will present American families with a big tax increase that they do not expect and will not want .
Israel completed its handover of the West Bank town of Tulkarem to the Palestinians Tuesday .
Tulkarem is the second town transferred to the Palestinians , after Jericho last week .
The transfer of five West Bank towns is one of the steps Israeli and Palestinian leaders agreed to at a summit in Egypt last month .
Israel has yet to hand over three other towns - Qalqiliya , Bethlehem and Ramallah .
Meanwhile , Israel confirmed plans to build 3,500 new homes in Maale Adumin , the largest Jewish settlement in the West Bank .
"Palestinians condemned the move as a violation of the internationally-backed "" Road Map "" peace plan and said it threatens the newly-energized Middle East peace process ."
The peace plan calls on Israel to freeze its settlement activity in the West Bank .
It also requires the Palestinians to dismantle militant groups .
A group of armed men stormed into a bar in western Mexico and threw five human heads on the floor in an incident apparently linked to illegal drug trafficking .
Witnesses say the 20 men fired shots in the air as they entered the bar in Michoacan state before dawn Wednesday .
"The group also left a note saying the killings were part of what it called "" divine justice . """
Officials say relatives of three of the victims had identified their bodies and claimed they were not connected to illegal drug gangs .
Mexican police have found several victims from similar attacks earlier this year .
Mexico 's President-elect Felipe Calderon has vowed to crack down on violent crime when he takes office in December .
Pakistani authorities say at least 18 women and children were killed in a stampede in the southern city of Karachi , where they were waiting to get free flour .
Medical officials say at least 25 others were injured in the crush in the city 's crowded Khori Garden neighborhood .
A private charity group was giving out the flour in honor of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan .
Dozens of impoverished women and children had gathered in the narrow lanes and alleys outside the distribution point .
Witnesses say some people on line started pushing , and panic ensued when a security guard used force to restore order .
Officials say most of the victims died of suffocation .
Pakistani Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani ordered medical treatment for the injured and an investigation into the incident .
Police have detained the event 's organizer , saying they were not notified of the planned distribution .
A group of Israeli actors , writers and directors is vowing not to perform in Jewish settlements in the West Bank .
More than 50 members of Israel 's theater community have signed a petition to boycott performances at a state-funded theater in the northern West Bank settlement of Ariel .
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told his Cabinet Sunday that the Israeli government does not need to provide funding to the performers taking part in the boycott .
Mr. Netanyahu said the performers ' actions play into the hands of international efforts to delegitimize Israel with economic and cultural boycotts .
The protest comes as Israeli and Palestinian leaders prepare to meet in Washington this week to resume stalled Middle East peace talks .
Both Israelis and Palestinians say they hold little hope that U.S.-mediated direct talks will yield any results or make progress toward ending the decades-old conflict in the Middle East .
Somalia 's transitional government-in-exile met Tuesday to try to bridge deep divisions over plans to relocate to the war-shattered nation .
A group of Somali ministers walked out of a meeting Monday , before a majority voted to return to Somalia but not to the capital , Mogadishu , which the prime minister says is too dangerous .
The ministers voted instead to relocate to the central towns of Baidoa and Jowhar until security improves in the capital .
The Somali government currently operates out of Nairobi , Kenya .
Lawmakers are also bitterly divided over plans to deploy a peacekeeping force to provide security once the government returns to Somalia .
The regional bloc - IGAD - has decided to initially exclude troops from nations bordering Somalia .
Opponents of the force say border nations have backed violent factions during years of civil war .
A Saudi Interior Ministry spokesman says three French nationals have been killed in northwestern Saudi Arabia .
The spokesman says gunmen shot at a group of nine French nationals as they rested at a roadside , killing three and injuring at least one other .
The spokesman says the group was traveling to the holy city of Mecca , where some of them were to perform the minor pilgrimage known as Omra .
Only Muslims are allowed in Mecca .
The spokesman said the French nationals were residents of the Saudi kingdom .
It was not immediately clear who was responsible for the killings .
Saudi Arabia has been battling al-Qaida militants in the kingdom , and the terrorist group has targeted Westerners in the past .
Several hundred inmates who escaped from a prison in Haiti are believed to still be at large Sunday , after an attack on the national penitentiary left one guard dead .
Haitian officials say as many as 500 of the prison 's 1,200 detainees may have escaped .
It is unclear how many have been recaptured .
The prisoners fled after gunmen fired on the facility Saturday .
The French news agency , AFP , quotes a government source as saying the raid was aimed at freeing drug traffickers .
Two high-ranking officials from the government of ousted Haitian President Jean Bertrand Aristide were among the prisoners who were quickly recaptured .
Haitian authorities say former Prime Minister Yvon Neptune and former Interior Minister Jocelerme Privert are back in custody .
Both men have yet to be indicted .
They are accused of violence against Aristide opponents .
"U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan says the situation between Ethiopia and Eritrea has reached a "" dangerous stalemate "" and suggested possible changes to the U.N. mission in the region ."
Mr. Annan presented the U.N. Security Council with six options for the U.N. mission , ranging from maintaining the status quo to a full withdrawal .
Other options include moving the U.N. mission headquarters from Eritrea to Ethiopia and downgrading the operation to either an observer or liaison effort .
Mr. Annan did not recommend any particular option and said none offered an ideal way out of the stalemate .
Both Eritrea and Ethiopia have increased troops along their shared border .
Eritrea has also imposed restrictions on U.N. peacekeepers in its territory .
The Security Council has threatened sanctions against both countries if the situation is not reversed .
In this photograph released by the Iraqi Special Tribunal on June 13 , 2005 , former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein is seen being questioned by investigating magistrates Iraq 's special tribunal has filed its first charges against former president Saddam Hussein for crimes committed during his 24-year rule .
The chief investigating judge says the ousted dictator has been charged in connection with the 1982 deaths of dozens of villagers in Dujail .
Authorities allege the villagers were killed in retaliation for an attempted assassination of Saddam .
The judge told reporters a trial date could be announced within days .
U.N. relief coordinator Jan Egeland said Sunday , U.S. , Indonesian and Australian military helicopters are ferrying out food and supplies to remote areas of western Aceh province that ground crews can not reach .
Mr. Egeland said the latest figures show 1.8 million people are in need of food assistance - with the need greatest in Indonesia , Sri Lanka , the Maldives and India .
He said last week 's tsunami and the massive underwater earthquake that triggered it has affected millions in Asia and Africa .
Some 1,27,000 people are known dead .
Aid is being rushed to the region , but the U.N. official stressed that bottlenecks and a lack of infrastructure remain a challenge .
Lebanese politicians are condemning Friday 's bomb blast in a Christian neighborhood of Beirut as an attempt to sow sectarian strife in the formerly war-torn country .
In Beirut , a string of officials voiced their anger , while at the United Nations summit in New York , Prime Minister Fouad Siniora said the Lebanese people are resolute in preventing such attempts from destroying their spirit .
One person was killed and more than 20 others injured in the bomb blast late Friday , which took place on a residential street .
Lebanon has suffered a series of bombings since the massive explosion in February that killed former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri and 20 other people .
Syria is widely accused of involvement in his killing , and Friday 's explosion comes days before U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis is to return to Damascus to interview several Syrian officials about the assassination .
Israeli officials say Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will undergo a medical procedure Thursday to close a tiny hole in his heart discovered during treatment for a minor stroke suffered last month .
Doctors describe the tiny hole as a minor birth defect and say it is in the partition between the upper chambers of Mr. Sharon 's heart .
The procedure , known as cardiac catheterization , involves inserting a catheter through a blood vessel into the heart , where an umbrella-like device will plug the hole .
Doctors say they expect Mr. Sharon will make a full recovery .
Mr. Sharon returned to work on December 25 , one week after his emergency hospitalization .
Doctors say the stroke has not caused any permanent damage .
The designers of the first private manned rocket to burst into space have received a $ 10 million prize created to promote space tourism .
SpaceShipOne designer Burt Rutan accepted the Ansari X Prize money and a trophy on behalf of his team Saturday during an awards ceremony in the U.S. state of Missouri .
To win the money , SpaceShipOne had to blast off into space twice in a two-week period and fly at least 100 kilometers above Earth .
The spacecraft made its flights in late September and early October , lifting off from California 's Mojave desert .
The vehicle had to carry a pilot and weight equivalent to two passengers .
SpaceShipOne was financed with more than $ 20 million from Paul Allen , a co-founder of the Microsoft Corporation .
North Korea says flooding caused by last week 's typhoon , Wipha , has destroyed 14,000 homes and 1,09,000 hectares of crops .
The state news agency KCNA reported the damage Monday .
It says the floods also destroyed or damaged 8,000 public buildings and washed out roads , bridges and railways .
The report did not mention any deaths or injuries .
Most of the heavy rains and flooding occurred in the southwestern part of the country , including the capital , Pyongyang .
Last month , severe flooding in North Korea left 600 people dead or missing , and displaced more than 1,00,000 others .
A strong earthquake under the ocean off Indonesia 's Sumatra and Nias islands has caused some panic but no damage or injuries .
The U.S. Geological Survey gave a preliminary estimate of the strength of the Tuesday morning quake at 6.7 on the Richter scale , and said the epicenter was close to the island of Nias .
The quake did not cause a tsunami .
An earthquake in late March killed more than 900 people on Nias .
Both Sumatra and Nias have experienced countless earthquakes since a massive tsunami-producing quake on December 26 .
The latest official death toll from that tragedy stands at some 1,76,000 people killed - 1,28,000 of them in Indonesia .
Nearly 50,000 people are still listed as missing , but most of them are feared dead .
The U.S. rap star Snoop Dogg and five of his associates have been arrested in Britain after a disturbance at London 's Heathrow Airport .
"Police told British media that the musician , who was born with the name Calvin Broadus , and members of his entourage were being held on charges of "" violent disorder and affray . """
The group was waiting for a flight to South Africa , where Snoop Dogg was to perform in a concert Thursday , when it was denied access to a first-class lounge at the airport .
Police said members of the group later threw bottles of whisky in a duty-free store and scuffled with police .
Snoop Dogg is a former member of a street gang the Crips , from Southern California , and many of his songs reflect the gritty life on the streets .
"Afghan President Hamid Karzai says he has fired two "" high-ranking "" Afghan officials who were spying for other countries , and warns he would not spare anyone who engages in such activity ."
Mr. Karzai made the disclosure at a lunch meeting with newly sworn-in parliament members , and did not name the dismissed officials nor indicate when he took the action He also did not name the other countries involved .
Mr. Karzai said he had strong evidence against the two officials .
But he said even if he had minor evidence , he would have punished them .
He said anyone found spying for foreign countries will be shown on television , and put on trial .
Mr. Karzai has led Afghanistan since the Taleban were ousted in late 2001 .
He won a presidential election in October 2004 .
And now the Taleban are waging an insurgency against his administration .
For the last four weeks a team led by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has been trying to broker a deal between the Kenyan government of President Mwai Kibaki and the opposition led by Raila Odinga .
The negotiations have concentrated on a power sharing agreement and a transitional arrangement leading to new elections .
A recent report by the international crisis group says three complimentary sets of issues must be addressed to finalize a detailed power sharing agreement .
Francois Grignon is director of the Africa program of the ICG .
In a telephone interview to discuss the issues at stake , he told VOA reporter Akwei Thompson the opposition would demonstrate a stronger political will to tackle the task of legal and constitutional reform needed during the transition period because   the electoral dispute left them out , the losers  . 
President Bush has signed legislation that will require screening of all air and sea cargo , and will provide more money to cities deemed to be at high risk of a terrorist attack .
"After signing the bill Friday and meeting with his advisers on counter-terrorism , Mr. Bush said his homeland security and counter-terrorism teams are doing everything they can to protect the country from what he called a "" dangerous enemy . """
The new measures carry out some recommendations made by the independent commission that investigated the September 11 , 2001 attacks on the United States .
Those include a grant of $ 4 billion to be given to high-risk cities to upgrade transit security .
They also mandate screening of all U.S.-bound cargo on planes and ships within the next five years .
Burmese democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi is calling on citizens in her country to work toward national reconciliation in the new year .
"In a statement Friday , she asked the Burmese people to "" struggle together with new strengths , new force and new words "" in 2011 ."
The 65-year-old advocate for democratic reforms in Burma was released after more than seven years of house arrest on November 13 .
That was just days after the country 's military rulers claimed an overwhelming victory in Burma 's widely criticized first election in two decades .
"She said in the statement that Burmese people need to establish political and social networks to achieve "" national reconciliation as well as a truly united spirit . """
The United States on Thursday again called for Burma 's leaders to free the more than 2,200 political prisoners in the country and engage in talks to promote democracy .
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton has assembled world leaders , activists and academics in New York to address the issues of poverty , global warning and conflict .
Opening Thursday , the Clinton Global Initiative 's conference coincides with the Millennium summit of the United Nations General Assembly .
Mr. Clinton says the focus of the three-day conference is to secure concrete pledges from leaders to address significant problems , not to simply talk about them .
Organizers say the conference is different from other forums because participants are required to pledge to address issues in concrete ways and to report back on their progress .
Expected attendees or speakers include British Prime Minister Tony Blair , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan and Israel 's Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres .
Peruvian election officials say the narrow gap between two candidates vying for the second spot on the ballot for the country 's run-off presidential election has tightened further .
Officials said Sunday former center-left president Alan Garcia leads pro-business congresswoman Lourdes Flores by less than 96,000 votes , with nearly 90 percent of the votes counted .
Garcia led Flores by nearly 1,10,000 votes on Saturday .
The surge by Flores is attributed to heavy support among Peruvians living abroad whose votes are apparently starting to impact the election tally .
Since no candidate received half of the vote in the April 9 election , a presidential run-off will be held 30 days after the final results are announced .
Either Garcia or Flores will take on nationalist Ollanta Humala , who took 31 percent of the vote .
Chilean authorities have freed on bail the wife and four adult children of former dictator Augusto Pinochet , a day after they were detained on tax evasion charges .
Lucia Hiriart and her children were arrested Monday as part of an investigation into millions of dollars kept in bank accounts abroad .
A fifth child , daughter Lucia , is also charged , but her whereabouts are unknown .
If located , she will be prohibited from leaving the country .
General Pinochet has been indicted for tax fraud for allegedly hiding $ 27 million in foreign bank accounts .
The former dictator also faces human rights charges related to his rule in the mid-1970s .
His lawyers say he is not healthy enough to stand trial , but court-ordered doctors say he is fit enough to do so .
Rebel sources in Mexico say a female leader of the Zapatista rebel movement has died .
Zapatista leader Subcomandante Marcos Friday announced the death of Comandante Ramona , saying Mexico had lost a fighter and the Zapatistas had lost a piece of their heart .
The announcement came during a stop in Chiapas , six days into the leader 's nationwide tour .
The nature of Comandante Ramona 's death was not immediately clear , but it was rumored that she had cancer or a kidney disease .
She had once received a kidney transplant .
The mysterious female leader was a Tzotzil Indian and a promoter of women 's rights .
She was a longtime member of the Zapatista movement and appeared in public wearing a black ski mask .
On January 1 , Subcomandante Marcos emerged from his jungle hideout to begin a six-month nationwide tour in a bid to influence this year 's presidential elections .
Representatives of the Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations have appealed for the release of kidnapped American journalist Jill Carroll .
In Baghdad Saturday , an official with the influential Islamic group called on Carroll 's abductors to release her unharmed .
In an earlier statement , the group said the 28-year-old journalist has a well-documented record of objective reporting and respect for both the Iraqi people and Arab-Islamic culture .
There still is no word on the journalist 's fate , following a threat by her kidnappers to execute her Friday unless all eight female detainees in American custody in Iraq were released .
Meanwhile , a militant group has kidnapped the son of a senior Iraqi Defense Ministry official .
In a videotape shown on al-Arabiya ( Saturday ) , kidnappers threatened to kill the son of Brigadier-General Sabah Abd al-Karim unless Iraqi security forces stop cooperating with U.S.-led coalition troops in Iraq .
"Leading Muslim groups attending an anti-terrorism conference in northern India have denounced terrorism as "" un-Islamic . """
The declaration was made by thousands of scholars and clerics Monday at the country 's top Islamic seminary - the 150-year-old Darul-Uloom Deoband in Uttar Pradesh .
Their statement said any terrorist activity targeting innocent people contradicts Islam 's concept of peace .
It described Islam as a religion of mercy , and it condemned all kinds of oppression , violence and terrorism .
However , the statement also called on the Indian government to ensure that members of the Muslim community are not harassed .
It said that whenever there is a terrorist attack , attempts are made to link the attack to Muslims who have studied in madrassas or religious schools .
The declaration also said many innocent Muslims are spending their lives behind bars , having been falsely accused of involvement in acts of terror .
Microsoft founder Bill Gates and the government of Norway have pledged more than $ 1 billion for a campaign to vaccinate most of the world 's poorest children .
Donors say they hope the $ 750 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and a pledge from Norway for $ 290 million spurs other foundations and governments to invest in The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization .
The alliance hopes to immunize 90 percent of the world 's children by 2015 .
The group estimates it will cost $ 8 to $ 12 billion .
The World Health Organization estimates two million people die each year from diseases that are easily prevented by basic vaccines .
Spain has begun a trial for 24 suspected al-Qaida members , including three accused of helping plan the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States .
The defendants appeared in a Madrid court Friday , behind bulletproof glass .
More than 100 armed police are providing security at a remodeled courtroom , specially-built for trials with multiple defendants .
Among the accused is the suspected leader of the Spanish al-Qaida cell - Syrian-born Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas .
He allegedly organized a meeting of terror suspects in Spain during which details of the September 11 attacks were finalized .
Prosecutors are asking that the leader of the group be sentenced to more than 60,000 years in prison if convicted .
European Union observers are preparing to monitor Palestinian parliamentary elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , despite recent kidnappings of foreigners .
Chief EU observer Veronique De Keyser says her group is making regular security assessments and taking all necessary precautions .
"She says the EU 's commitment must be met , adding that it would a "" bad sign "" not to send monitors to Gaza , where several foreign aid workers were kidnapped and released unharmed in recent weeks ."
Ms. De Keyser spoke to reporters in Jerusalem Monday as more than 30 EU observers headed to Palestinian cities and towns .
Campaigning for the January 25 elections begins Tuesday .
But several senior Palestinian leaders are calling for a delay in the vote , citing dire law-and-order conditions and Israel 's refusal to permit voting in East Jerusalem .
An international delegation that monitored the elections in Liberia is calling on all concerned to act responsibly to ensure the post-war peace process stays on track .
The delegation , led by former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and former Benin President Nicephore Soglo , also urged the international community to continue its assistance .
It added that extensive voter education will be needed if a runoff election is required .
The delegation said a major problem in Tuesday 's poll was widespread lack of voter understanding of the process of casting ballots .
It also cited voter ignorance of the nature of choice among the candidates .
The joint delegation from the former U.S. president 's Carter Center and the National Democratic Institute includes representatives from 14 nations in Africa , Europe and North America .
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has again called for reconciliation talks with Taleban militants .
"In remarks to people gathered at the main Shi'ite mosque in Kabul Monday , Mr. Karzai referred to what he called "" the enemy who wants our destruction and sheds our blood . """
He did not refer to the Taleban by name .
The Afghan leader has made similar offers of talks before , but Taleban leaders have rebuffed them .
Last year saw a dramatic increase in Taleban militant attacks against U.S. , NATO and Afghan forces in Afghanistan .
At least four thousand people were killed in insurgency-related violence .
U.S. and NATO military leaders in the country are warning of a new Taleban offensive in the coming months , as the snows thaw and mountain roads become more accessible .
French police detained nine people Monday in the Paris region and nearby Normandy in a crackdown on a group suspected of planning terror attacks in France .
At least seven of the suspects are believed to have links to an Algerian insurgency movement , the Salafist Group for Call and Combat , known as the GSPC , which has declared allegiance to al-Qaida .
A detainee is escorted to interrogation by US military guards at Camp X-Ray at Guantanamo Bay US Naval Base
The Pentagon says seven detainees at the U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba have been released to their home countries .
A statement said Wednesday that three of the detainees were released after a tribunal determined that they were not enemy combatants .
One was sent back to Sudan , another to Saudi Arabia and the third to Jordan .
Four others cleared under different types of administrative review were released to Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan .
An eighth detainee , a Moroccan , has been transferred to Spain , where he is accused of having links to an al-Qaida cell .
Yemen is a low income country that is highly dependent on declining oil resources for revenue .
Petroleum accounts for roughly 25 % of GDP and 70 % of government revenue .
Yemen has tried to counter the effects of its declining oil resources by diversifying its economy through an economic reform program initiated in 2006 that is designed to bolster non-oil sectors of the economy and foreign investment .
In October 2009 , Yemen exported its first liquefied natural gas as part of this diversification effort .
In January 2010 , the international community established the Friends of Yemen group that aims to support Yemen 's efforts towards economic and political reform , and in August 2010 the IMF approved a three-year $ 370 million program to further this effort .
Despite these ambitious endeavors , Yemen continues to face difficult long term challenges , including declining water resources and a high population growth rate .
Singapore was founded as a British trading colony in 1819 .
It joined the Malaysian Federation in 1963 but separated two years later and became independent .
Singapore subsequently became one of the world 's most prosperous countries with strong international trading links ( its port is one of the world 's busiest in terms of tonnage handled ) and with per capita GDP equal to that of the leading nations of Western Europe .
Ruled by the Al Thani family since the mid-1800s , Qatar transformed itself from a poor British protectorate noted mainly for pearling into an independent state with significant oil and natural gas revenues .
During the late 1980s and early 1990s , the Qatari economy was crippled by a continuous siphoning off of petroleum revenues by the Amir , who had ruled the country since 1972 .
His son , the current Amir HAMAD bin Khalifa Al Thani , overthrew him in a bloodless coup in 1995 .
In 2001 , Qatar resolved its longstanding border disputes with both Bahrain and Saudi Arabia .
As of 2007 , oil and natural gas revenues had enabled Qatar to attain the second-highest per capita income in the world .
Subsistence agriculture , together with forestry , remains the backbone of the economy of the Central African Republic ( CAR ) , with about 60 % of the population living in outlying areas .
The agricultural sector generates more than half of GDP .
Timber has accounted for about 16 % of export earnings and the diamond industry , for 40 % .
Important constraints to economic development include the CAR 's landlocked position , a poor transportation system , a largely unskilled work force , and a legacy of misdirected macroeconomic policies .
Factional fighting between the government and its opponents remains a drag on economic revitalization .
Distribution of income is extraordinarily unequal .
Grants from France and the international community can only partially meet humanitarian needs .
A PEASANT found an Eagle captured in a trap , and much admiring the bird , set him free .
The Eagle did not prove ungrateful to his deliverer , for seeing the Peasant sitting under a wall which was not safe , he flew toward him and with his talons snatched a bundle from his head .
When the Peasant rose in pursuit , the Eagle let the bundle fall again .
Taking it up , the man returned to the same place , to find that the wall under which he had been sitting had fallen to pieces ; and he marveled at the service rendered him by the Eagle .
THE ASS and the Fox , having entered into partnership together for their mutual protection , went out into the forest to hunt .
They had not proceeded far when they met a Lion .
The Fox , seeing imminent danger , approached the Lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox .
Then , upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured , the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it .
The Lion , seeing that the Ass was secured , immediately clutched the Fox , and attacked the Ass at his leisure .
Never trust your enemy
Old mathematicians never die ; they just lose some of their functions .
Nostalgia is like a grammar lesson .
You find the present tense and the past perfect .
My grandfather worked in a blacksmith shop when he was a boy , and he used to tell me how he had toughened himself up so he could stand the rigors of blacksmithing .
He said he would stand outside behind the house and , with a 5 pound potato sack in each hand , extend his arms straight out to his sides and hold them there as long as he could .
After a while he tried 10 pound potato sacks , then 20 pound potato sacks and finally he got to where he could lift a 50 pound potato sack in each hand and hold his arms straight out for five full minutes ! Eventually , he even started putting potatoes in the sacks .
Advance copies of the United Nations ' internal audit of its oil-for-food program reportedly show that U.N. officials wasted money and overlooked massive overcharges by contractors .
News reports published Sunday in the United States say the audits , part of an extensive independent report to be released on Monday , criticize a former top aide to Secretary-General Kofi Annan , Benon Sevan , and the U.N. office he headed that ran the oil-for-food program .
However , the advance portions of the audit described by The New York Times and Associated Press do not reveal any systematic corruption or bribery .
Mr. Annan named an independent panel to investigate the program following allegations that billions of dollars were diverted by some members of the former Saddam Hussein regime and other corrupt officials .
The program was created in 1996 to help the people of Iraq after the first Gulf War .
Former U.S. central bank chief Paul Volcker heads the independent commission .
He said last week that no clear-cut evidence of wrongdoing has been found .
Sri Lanka 's military says it has launched airstrikes on rebel sites in northern parts of the country , following rebel artillery attacks .
Officials Saturday said at least 11 soldiers were killed and 53 others were wounded in the fighting on the Jaffna peninsula .
They said Tamil Tiger rebels provoked the fighting by opening fire with artillery strikes against Sri Lankan troops .
Government officials also said they sent a naval ship to the peninsula to evacuate nearly 800 civilians trapped in the area .
Thousands of people have been stranded in northern Sri Lanka since rebels launched new attacks last month .
The Tamil Tiger rebels have been fighting for a separate homeland in the north and east since the early 1980s .
Tens of thousands of people have died in the violence .
The White House will become a pink house on Thursday , as it is bathed in pink lighting to call attention to the fight against breast cancer .
U.S. President Barack Obama announced on the social networking site Twitter that the executive mansion will be lit in pink Thursday evening in recognition of October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month .
Earlier this month , Mr. Obama signed a proclamation for breast cancer awareness month .
It is one of numerous public efforts in October in the U.S. aimed at fighting the disease .
Last year , a large pink ribbon was hung outside the White House .
The American Cancer Society says there are about 40,000 breast cancer deaths annually in the U.S.
The World Health Organization says breast cancer claims 5,19,000 lives worldwide each year .
Someone in the world dies in a traffic accident , on average , every 30 seconds .
That is the conclusion of the international group Make Roads Safe , a worldwide effort to make road safety a global priority .
On 31 March 2008 , the United Nations plans to take up the issue of global road safety amid calls for a U.N. conference to tackle the rising toll of road deaths and injuries .
VOA 's Tetiana Koprowicz has more on efforts to improve road safety in the U.S.
A British diplomat has met again with Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh to discuss the case of kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston .
British consul Richard Makepeace met in Gaza Tuesday with Mr. Haniyeh , of the Islamic militant group Hamas .
The two also held talks on the kidnapping last month despite a British boycott of Palestinian officials from Hamas .
British officials say the talks do not represent a change in British policy , and are only focused on the case of Johnston , who was kidnapped in Gaza on March 12 .
It is not clear who the kidnappers are .
An aide to Mr. Haniyeh said the Palestinian government hopes for a resolution of the case soon .
Johnston was the only Western reporter permanently based in the Gaza Strip at the time of his abduction .
The United States and Israel have agreed to work together on developing a new missile defense system that would counter both long-range ballistic missiles as well as short-range rockets .
U.S Defense Secretary Robert Gates and his Israeli counterpart , Ehud Barak , agreed during talks Tuesday at the Pentagon to form a committee to work on the proposed system .
A Pentagon spokesman , Geoff Morrell , said Israel wants to be able to counter missile attacks possibly from Iran as well as rockets fired from Palestinian territories .
Israel has been facing regular rocket fire from Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip since withdrawing from the territory in 2005 .
"Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez says he is "" putting on the brakes "" on his socialist revolution after voters rejected his plans to reform the constitution ."
Mr. Chavez said on his weekly broadcast Sunday it would be a mistake at this time to try to quicken the pace of his plans to turn Venezuela into a socialist haven .
He said he will evaluate the results of the referendum before deciding how to proceed with his pro-socialist plans .
He also said he will focus on regional elections later this year as one way to consolidate Socialist party power .
Venezuelan voters last month turned down the constitutional reform package which included making Mr. Chavez president for life .
A human rights group says Belarus has launched criminal probes against at least 18 leading opposition figures over their alleged involvement in post-election riots .
The organization Vesna said Wednesday that those accused -- including seven of the nine candidates who ran against the country 's authoritarian leader -- face up to 15 years in prison if convicted .
Overall , Belarusian authorities jailed more than 600 people in the wake of Sunday 's protests against the re-election of President Alexander Lukashenko .
In the election , Mr. Lukashenko won a fourth consecutive term , capturing 80 percent of the vote .
No other candidate won more than three percent .
More than 30,000 demonstrators took to the streets after polls closed to protest what they said was a fraudulent election .
European observers and U.S. officials also have strongly criticized the election process .
U.S. Secretary of State nominee Condoleezza Rice is facing a second and final day of confirmation hearings Wednesday , after a first day that focused heavily on Iraq and repairing alliances strained by the conflict .
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is expected to question Ms. Rice for several more hours Wednesday before voting on her nomination to succeed Secretary of State Colin Powell .
A full Senate vote is expected Thursday .
Ms. Rice spent more than nine hours testifying Tuesday , handling tough questions about the direction of the war on terror and the Bush administration 's decision to invade Iraq .
She steadfastly maintained that she believes progress is being made in Iraq , but she declined to give a timetable for the return home of U.S. troops .
"She said President Bush 's foreign policy goals in the next four years include "" spreading freedom and democracy "" around the globe , as well as alliance building ."
At least 13 people were killed in Indian Kashmir Wednesday in a series of violent incidents involving Indian security forces and militants .
Indian officials say several gunbattles erupted when police and soldiers raided suspected rebel hideouts in the Udhampur and Poonch districts .
They say seven militants were killed in the clashes , along with two Indian security personnel .
In another incident , India 's military says four youths were killed in crossfire as Indian troops battled militants in the Kupwara district of northern Kashmir .
The civilian deaths triggered protests by residents of Kupwara against the security forces .
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is to hold talks with Kashmiri political leaders on Saturday to try to stop the violence .
But several prominent Kashmiri separatists have said they will not attend the talks .
The American fast food chain KFC is famous around the world for its fried chicken .
KFC stands for Kentucky Fried Chicken and founded by Harlan David Sanders , better know to patrons as Colonel Sanders .
In Kabul , Afghanistan , another KFC restaurant is doing a brisk business .
But this KFC is short for Kabul Fried Chicken and serves kabobs and pizza alongside the chicken .
Rahimgul Sarawan reports from Kabul that while this KFC was inspired by Colonel Sanders , that is where the association ends .
Brian Allen narrates .
Israel 's government is set to approve a plan that aims to turn the country into a space superpower .
The Jerusalem Post reported Friday that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is expected to approve plans designed to increase sales of locally made space platforms to nearly $ 8 billion a year .
The newspaper said the multi-year plan also includes increased spending on space research and development , focusing on mini-satellites as Israel 's primary market .
The report quotes the head of the Defense Ministry 's Space Division as saying Israel has the capability to carve out at least 5 percent of the international space market , estimated to total $ 250 billion a year .
The report said Israel is in talks with several countries and defense companies about the possibility of space collaboration .
Foreign direct investment in China fell slightly in the first five months of the year .
The ministry of commerce reported Monday that foreign direct investment from January to May slipped 0.8 percent from the same period last year , to $ 22.4 billion .
Contracted investment , which gives an indication of future inflows , grew 14.88 percent in the same period , to $ 64.97 billion .
Although foreign companies continue to build up investments in China , the pace of growth has been slowing .
Investments soared in late 2003 through 2004 after slowing during the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in the spring of 2003 .
The U.S.-led coalition said in a statement Tuesday that its forces killed 43 militants in southern Afghanistan .
The Afghan and U.S.-led troops battled the militants Sunday in Qalat district of Zabul province .
The statement said a joint patrol was ambushed with sniper fire , machine guns and heavy weapons from militants in multiple locations .
The coalition said its forces fired back with small arms and rocket propelled grenades .
They also called in air support .
The statement said no Afghan or U.S.-led troops were killed or wounded in the attack .
Nepal 's Maoist rebels have called off a traffic ban on major roads leading into the capital , Kathmandu , that disrupted supplies to the city for nearly a week .
The ban was called off Wednesday , after pleas from human rights groups and a mass demonstration this week by city residents demanding an end to the increasingly bloody conflict between Maoist rebels and security forces .
The rebels imposed the ban last week to protest the alleged killings of rebel activists in government custody and to press for information about those who are missing .
Violence has escalated ahead of a January 13 deadline set by Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba for the Maoists to resume peace talks .
The rebels have been fighting since 1996 to replace Nepal 's constitutional monarchy with a communist state .
More than 10,000 people have been killed in the violence .
U.S. Congressman Tom DeLay predicts he will be cleared of a criminal conspiracy charge , and that he will soon be reinstated as majority leader in the House of Representatives .
"The Republican congressman was speaking on the television program "" Fox News Sunday , "" where he called the indictment against him "" manufactured "" and "" frivolous . """
But another Republican lawmaker says he is no longer comfortable with Mr. Delay as majority leader .
"Speaking on CNN Sunday , Congressman Christopher Shays cited continual acts of Mr. Delay 's that in his words , "" border and sometimes go beyond "" what is ethical ."
Mr. DeLay stepped down as majority leader Thursday , after a grand jury in his home state of Texas indicted him for violating a state campaign-finance law .
The allegation centers on the misuse of corporate donations .
Last month , a United Nations conference in Rome discussed the world 's rising food prices .
The group called for trade barriers to be reduced and food export bans to be lifted .
The cost of major food commodities has doubled over the past two years with rice , corn and wheat at record highs .
The Philippines and Haiti , among other countries , have been hard-hit .
Some Filipino and Haitian immigrants in the United States are sending food to their families back home .
VOA 's Deborah Block has the story .
Israeli officials said they plan to make it harder for the Arabic television network al-Jazeera to operate in Israel and the West Bank .
Media reports said Israel will not renew the work visas of some Israeli-based al-Jazeera employees , and that the network 's reporters will have less access to news conferences and briefings .
Israeli officials tied the move to the decision last month by Qatar , which owns al-Jazeera , to suspend relations with Israel to protest its offensive in the Gaza Strip .
An Israeli official said Qatar created obstacles by closing Israel 's trade office in Doha .
Qatar had been the only Gulf Arab state to have trade ties with Israel .
Thousands of voters in Indian Kashmir went to the polls Tuesday in the first municipal elections in 27 years .
The voters turned out in large numbers in some areas despite threats of attacks by rebel groups , and calls for a boycott of the vote by Muslim separatist politicians .
Although no attacks were reported , there was sporadic violence .
In Srinagar , anti-election demonstrators burnt tires and pelted riot police with stones .
The poll to chose town councils in Indian Kashmir is being held in four stages .
It started on January 29 and the last stage will be held on February 10 .
Three candidates were killed by suspected Muslim separatists during the election campaign .
Iraqi police say a string of bomb attacks in Baghdad killed at least 27 people and wounded scores more Thursday .
Police say a car bomb in eastern Baghdad killed at least five people , while seven died in another car bombing in a largely Shi'ite neighborhood in northwestern Baghdad .
Hours earlier , two bombs went off in an eastern part of the capital .
One bomb killed 13 people at a crowded market .
The other bomb killed two people near a police patrol .
The explosions are the latest in the almost daily bomb blasts and other attacks in Baghdad and across Iraq .
On Wednesday , insurgents killed at least 10 people , including six police officers and a Sunni Arab cleric .
Afghan and U.S. officials say a clash between Taleban insurgents and Afghan soldiers backed by U.S. troops in southern Helmand province has left one American soldier and seven insurgents dead .
A military statement says another U.S. service member and an Afghan soldier were wounded in Saturday 's fierce fighting in the province 's Sangin district .
The statement says fighting erupted after Afghan and U.S. troops backed by planes and helicopter gunships attacked enemy positions , dropping 11 bombs .
Helmand province has been a hotbed of insurgent activity since U.S.-led forces ousted the hard-line Islamist Taleban rulers of Afghanistan in late 2001 , following the September 11th terrorist attacks in the United States .
Russia 's lower house of parliament , the Duma , has ratified treaties with the Georgian breakaway regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia .
The widely-expected endorsements clear the way for Moscow to keep thousands of troops in the pro-Russian territories .
Duma lawmakers voted unanimously Wednesday for the so-called friendship and mutual assistance treaties , which formalize economic , diplomatic and military ties .
Moscow recognized the two regions as independent countries in August , shortly after Russian forces swept into Georgia to counter a Georgian military effort to reclaim South Ossetia by force .
The invasion drew strong condemnations from the West , where some governments threatened to respond with sanctions on Moscow .
Moscow says it will station 7,600 troops in the territories .
Earlier this week , Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow opposes the deployment of European Union monitors in the region .
He said Russian forces will assume responsibility for security in the territories .
Adult stem cell therapy has successfully treated leukemia and other cancers for years , in the form of bone marrow transplants .
A new study in the Journal of the American Medical Association [ JAMA ] finds treatment with adult stem cells is also helping patients with autoimmune diseases and heart conditions .
VOA 's Alex Villarreal reports .
The party of Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon votes Thursday , on forming a new coalition government to advance plans for an Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Sharon asked members to approve the union with the rival Labor Party , saying it will help the government gain enough votes to approve the pullout .
Meanwhile , Israeli military officials say troops killed five Palestinians in separate incidents overnight near the Gaza Strip 's border with Egypt .
Israeli soldiers opened fire on a group of people moving in a forbidden area near Rafah , killing three of them .
Military officials say the troops suspected the men were arms smugglers or terrorists planning an attack .
Israeli forces also shot and killed one Palestinian and injured two others spotted in a separate area near the Gaza border .
One of those injured later died at a hospital .
A group led by terrorist Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has claimed responsibility for Monday 's assassination of Baghdad 's deputy police chief .
"The group , calling itself the "" al-Qaida Organization of Holy War in Iraq , "" made the claim on an Islamist web site , just hours after gunmen shot down Brigadier Amer Nayef and his police officer son ."
Iraqi officials say the two men were killed as they left their home in Baghdad 's southern Dora district .
The assassination comes six days after insurgents gunned down Baghdad 's provincial governor and six of his bodyguards as they rode to work .
Elsewhere in the capital , U.S. authorities say two U.S. soldiers were killed and four others wounded when their armored vehicle struck a roadside bomb .
Separately , authorities say a suicide car bomber rammed a car into a police station in southern Baghdad , killing at least three people .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says Iraq 's forthcoming election marks the beginning of a new phase , in which responsible dialogue among Shi'ites , Sunni Arabs and Kurds will make the difference between success and failure in the war-torn country .
In a report to the Security Council Friday , Mr. Annan says increasing sectarian violence and ongoing human rights violations pose key challenges as voters prepare to go to the polls Thursday .
He says the most positive development in the past three months has been the determination of Sunni Arabs to get involved in the political process .
In the quarterly report on Iraq to the Security Council , Mr. Annan warns , however , the country remains beset with formidable security , political and economic challenges .
Meanwhile , Sunni Arab clerics pleaded Friday for the lives of four Western hostages .
Their kidnappers have said they will kill the men Saturday unless all Iraqi prisoners are freed .
Egyptian authorities say a construction company bus driver is in custody after he opened fire on a busload of workers , killing six and wounding others , near Cairo .
Egyptian construction firm Arab Contractors says Mahmoud Sweilam , a 20-year veteran of the company , surrendered after the deadly rampage early Tuesday .
Authorities say Sweilam was driving more than 20 company employees to their work site when he suddenly stopped the bus and began shooting at them with an automatic rifle .
Police are still investigating a motive for the attack .
U.S. private employers added 71,000 jobs in July , indicating the U.S. labor market and the economy at large are slow to recover from recession .
A report Friday from the Labor Department shows the unemployment rate stayed unchanged at 9.5 percent .
Economists closely watch the private payrolls figure , because private companies do the bulk of hiring in the United States .
Employment is also a big indicator of consumer spending , as those who are unemployed or worried about job stability tend to spend less .
The country lost jobs overall in July , due in large part to cuts at the U.S. Census Bureau .
The government agency cut about 1,44,000 temporary employees who were hired for only a couple of months to conduct the once-a-decade population count .
Venezuela 's president has invited Haiti to join a program offering inexpensive oil to Caribbean nations .
The offer came during a visit Monday to Caracas by Haiti 's President-Elect Rene Preval .
Mr. Preval met with Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez .
They discussed Haiti 's inclusion in Venezuela 's Petrocaribe program which offers generous payment options to Caribbean countries for the purchase of Venezuelan oil .
During the meeting , Mr. Chavez said Venezuela would also donate diesel fuel for use by schools and hospitals in Haiti .
Mr. Preval was elected in February following a campaign of promises to improve social conditions and education for Haitians .
He will be inaugurated on May 14 .
Police in Nepal armed with batons dispersed a protest Tuesday by Tibetan refugees and monks in front of the Chinese Embassy .
About 100 protesters in Kathmandu were loaded into trucks and vans and sent to detention centers .
There have been almost daily demonstrations in Nepal against China since March 10 , when protests began in Tibet 's capital , Lhasa .
At least 400 protesters were detained in Nepal Monday .
The U.N. human rights office in Nepal has said it is deeply concerned at the arbitrary arrests and detentions .
Nepal 's border with China in the Himalayas is a key route for Tibetans fleeing Chinese rule in the region .
Iraqi police say a car bomb has killed at least 21 people at a Baghdad market .
They say 25 others were wounded in the blast in a mostly Shi'ite Muslim part of Dora - a neighborhood in southern Baghdad .
Elsewhere in the capital Tuesday , a roadside bomb killed an Iraqi policeman , but an Iraqi Cabinet minister , Suhaila Abed Jaafar , minister of displacement and migration escaped unhurt from another bomb blast .
The attacks came as Britain 's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw met in Baghdad with President Jalal Talabani about the slow progress in forming a new Iraqi government .
Straw stressed the government should not be dominated by one religious group .
But Iraq 's Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari said choosing a government is an internal affair .
Meanwhile , Jordanian officials have announced the release of a Jordanian embassy driver who had been held hostage in Iraq since December .
Two important new studies show tightly managing blood sugar helps diabetics avoid many of the complications of the disease including kidney problems and heart disease .
One study focused on Type Two diabetes .
The other , funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation , gives hope to those with Type One .
Forensic experts in eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina have begun exhuming a mass grave believed to contain the bodies of 36 Muslims , including women and children , killed during the Balkan conflict .
Eyewitnesses say Bosnian Serb forces killed the victims then took the bodies to a garage in the village of Snagovo , near Zvornik , and set the building on fire .
The corpses were later buried in a mass grave .
Bosnian authorities have already exhumed two other mass graves in the village , finding about 300 skeletons .
They are believed to be the remains of some of the 8,000 Muslim men and boys massacred after Serb forces captured the enclave of Srebrenica in 1995 .
Iranian news media report that armed bandits have taken 30 people hostage in the southeast of the country .
The reports say the bandits blocked a road and opened fire on vehicles before abducting the victims Sunday .
The incident took place in Sistan-Baluchestan .
Few other details were immediately available .
"Thousands of motorcycle riders are in Washington for a parade known as "" Rolling Thunder , "" which comes a day before the Memorial Day holiday honoring U.S. military personnel killed in battle ."
The bikers are visiting the Vietnam Veterans memorial Sunday and are then gathering at the Lincoln memorial where there will be speakers .
A musical tribute to Veterans also is to be held today , which will include pop group Paul Revere and The Raiders and singer Nancy Sinatra .
"The "" Rolling Thunder "" event specifically honors missing U.S. soldiers and prisoners of war ."
Top-seeded Lleyton Hewitt of Australia and number-two Dominik Hrbaty of Slovakia have advanced to the second round of the International men 's hardcourt tennis championships in Adelaide , Australia .
Hewitt dropped the opening set Tuesday before bouncing back to beat Jan Hernych of the Czech Republic , 04-Jun , 06-Feb , 06-Apr .
The second-seeded Hrbaty had an easier time , topping Rameez Junaid of Australia , 06-Mar , 07-May .
In other matches involving seeded players , number-five James Blake of the United States defeated Alberto Martin of Spain , 06-Mar , 06-Mar .
But eighth-seeded Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina was upset , losing to Ivo Karlovic of Croatia , 06-Mar , 03-Jun , 06-Jan .
Unseeded players advancing included Australia 's Mark Philippoussis , Florian Mayer of Germany , Britain 's Andy Murray , Andreas Seppi of Italy , Frenchman Florent Serra , Jarkko Nieminen of Finland and Danish player Kenneth Carlsen .
The global human rights organization , Amnesty International says that HIV and AIDS are devastating poor women and children in South Africa .
In a report released in London , Amnesty says that poverty , gender inequality and unemployment remain major contributing factors .
"Pop Singer Annie Lennox is highlighting the issue with her new charity tune called "" Sing . """
On a recent trip to Africa , she says she learned how the disease affects women -- especially pregnant mothers and their unborn children -- much more than it does men .
VOA 's Mandy Clark reports .
Police have made a drug raid on athletes for the first time in the history of the Olympic games .
Italian authorities late Saturday and early Sunday morning seized materials in a surprise sweep through the living quarters of the Austrian biathlon and cross country teams .
While Italian police searched the residences , the International Olympic Committee conducted unannounced , out-of-competition drug tests on at least six Austrian cross-country skiers and four biathletes .
The involvement of Italian police is consistent with the country 's anti-doping laws , which treat doping as a criminal offense .
The probe began when the World Anti-Doping Agency discovered blood-doping equipment in Austria connected to Walter Mayer .
He was banned by the IOC from the Turin Olympics and the 2010 Vancouver Games for suspicion of performing blood transfusions at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games .
But Mayer remains the head coach of both the Austrian cross country and the biathlon teams .
A new U.N. report says the existence of armed militias in Lebanon is incompatible with restoring the country 's sovereignty and territorial integrity after three decades of Syrian domination .
Special U.N. envoy Terje Roed-Larsen said in his report that Lebanon 's inability to exert control over some areas or to rein in militias is stalling its progress toward full sovereignty .
Mr. Roed-Larsen is the special envoy in charge of implementing Security Council resolution 1559 , which calls for the withdrawal of foreign troops from Lebanon and the disarming of all militias , such as Hezbollah .
The report was delivered Wednesday in New York , as Lebanese troops deployed near Palestinian militant camps in the hills near the Syrian border .
Soldiers used loud speakers to call on the militants to leave the base and surrender those responsible for the killing Tuesday of a Lebanese army contractor .
An Indian court has sentenced a Pakistani man to death for the militant attack on New Delhi 's famous 17th century Red Fort five years ago .
Muhammad Arif was handed the death sentence Monday for his role in the December 2000 attack that killed three people .
The victims - a soldier and two civilians - died when Arif and five other militants sneaked into the complex and opened fire .
The Red Fort was a 17th century palace for Muslim Mughal emperor Shah Jehan .
The fort is now a symbol of India 's independence .
Many speeches and official pronouncements are given at its gates .
The United States has formally extended sanctions against Burma 's military government for another year .
President Barack Obama informed Congress of the decision Friday , saying Burma poses a continuing threat to U.S. national security and foreign policy .
He added that Burma 's actions and policies are hostile to U.S. interests .
The existing sanctions on Burma must be renewed annually .
They were set to expire next week .
Despite the sanctions , President Obama has been making an effort to engage the isolated country .
Earlier this week , U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Kurt Campbell visited Burma for a two-day trip , during which he met with leaders of the military junta and detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
The United States has strongly criticized Burma for upcoming election plans that effectively exclude Aung San Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy party .
The United States has stopped accepting requests for H1-B specialty work visas because its quota of 65,000 visas for 2006 has been reached .
The government 's immigration services agency said Friday , any further visa requests that are received will have to wait until late next year .
The specialty work visa program allows American companies to hire skilled workers from abroad with advanced skills , including scientists , engineers , or computer programmers .
The 65,000 visas granted annually normally can be extended for up to six years .
Congress decides how many visas are to be issued .
In addition to 65,000 regular H1-B visas , It also has approved an additional 20,000 work permits each year for foreigners who hold an advanced degree ( master 's or doctorate ) from an American college or university .
Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian has called for a ban on the use of weapons of mass destruction across the Taiwan Strait .
Mr. Chen said Wednesday that Taiwan is willing to guarantee that it will not use such weapons , and called on China to do the same .
Mr. Chen also made a new appeal to China to hold talks with the island , saying the two sides should work together to create a code of conduct across the strait .
China has rejected past overtures made by Mr. Chen , and has refused to speak with the Taiwanese leader until he agrees that Taiwan is an inseparable part of China .
China has threatened to seize Taiwan by force if it makes moves toward independence .
Diplomats at the U.N. nuclear agency say the United States and its European allies have agreed to suspend their push to refer Iran to the Security Council for possible sanctions over its nuclear activities .
The diplomats , speaking on condition of anonymity , said U.S. and European officials agreed to the delay to give Russia more time to persuade Iran to compromise on its nuclear activities .
They spoke Monday , ahead of this week 's meeting of the board of governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna .
The West accuses Iran of seeking to build nuclear weapons - a charge Iran denies .
Meanwhile , British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw says Iran must meet its obligations and allow international inspectors to visit its nuclear facilities .
On Sunday , the Iranian parliament voted to bar such visits if Iran is referred to the Security Council .
Israeli soldiers raided a West Bank refugee camp , Friday , sparking a shootout that killed two Palestinian militants and badly wounded another .
An Israeli military spokeswoman says Palestinians fired at troops who entered the Balata refugee camp at Nablus to arrest militants in the pre-dawn operation .
The fighting , part of a week-long Israeli offensive against militants , came a day after Palestinian authorities in the Gaza Strip began enforcing a ban on public displays of weapons in a key step toward imposing order .
Friday 's bloodshed came hours after Palestinians finished voting in local elections in the West Bank widely seen as a test of the political clout for the militant group Hamas ahead of a parliamentary ballot in January .
Unofficial results show the ruling Fatah party of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas won control of at least 61 of the 104 local councils , and Hamas took 28 .
U.S. military officials says they have completed a major sweep of western Iraq aimed at suppressing militant attacks in the lead-up to next week 's constitutional referendum .
A spokesman in Baghdad Friday said U.S.-led troops killed 50 insurgents during the six-day operation along the Syrian border .
He also said six U.S. Marines were killed by two separate roadside bombs in the area of operations .
The end of the military offensive comes just over one week before Iraqis go to the polls to vote on the country 's new constitution .
Shi'ite and Kurdish leaders support the constitution , while many Sunnis have denounced it .
Meanwhile , Iraqi President Jalal Talabani told a British television network , Sky News , Iraqi forces will not be ready to replace U.S.-led troops for two years .
But he said coalition withdrawal depends on a resolution from the U.N. Security Council and negotiations between the Iraqi government and coalition forces .
The World Health Organization says AIDS is spreading rapidly through China and estimates 10 million people may be infected with the virus by 2010 .
The WHO says the disease has spread to all of China 's provinces and autonomous regions - with injected drug use the main route of transmission .
It says a similar situation exists in Malaysia and Vietnam .
The warnings came in a statement Tuesday from the organization 's regional director , Shigeru Omi .
Mr. Omi called for stronger political will by Asian governments to stop the spread of the disease .
Based on the WHO 's records for Asia , Cambodia has the highest percentage of people infected with HIV - at 1.9 percent of the population .
Of all the people enjoying a so-called white Christmas Saturday , none appreciate it more than the folks of Victoria , Texas .
The usually balmy town near the Gulf of Mexico was hit with an unprecedented 30 centimeters of snow overnight .
The U.S. National Weather Service says until today , Victoria had not seen a measurable snowfall since 1973 .
The last time the town of 60,000 enjoyed a white Christmas was in 1917 , 86 years ago .
Residents will only have about 24 hours to build a snowman , as Sunday 's forecast calls for the return of sunny skies and high temperatures well above freezing .
Iraqi officials say insurgents carried out two separate suicide car bombings Thursday , killing at least eight people .
South of Kirkuk ( in Tuz Khormato ) , five people were killed and 16 injured when a suicide bomber detonated his vehicle near an Iraqi army checkpoint .
A second suicide bomber struck in the city of Samarra , killing at least three people when his car blew up near a joint U.S. - Iraqi patrol .
The attacks come as hundreds of thousands of Shi'ite Muslim pilgrims gather under tight security in the city of Karbala to mark Arbaeen .
Many pilgrims have walked to the Shi'ite holy city from towns across Iraq to mark the end of the 40-day mourning period for Imam Hussein , who was killed in a battle nearly 14 centuries ago .
Hussein was the grandson of the Prophet Mohammad , and is revered by Shi'ites .
Egyptian officials say rain and sandstorms that battered the country for several days have killed at least 31 people .
The hardest-hit areas were in northern Egypt , where the storms brought heavy rains and wind .
At least 13 of the deaths came in a six-story factory building collapse in the northern port city of Alexandria .
Building collapses blamed on poor construction and failure to follow building rules are relatively frequent in Egypt .
Officials said Monday they had reopened ports on the Red Sea , which had been closed because of the storms .
Officials also blamed the weather for poor visibility that led to traffic accidents .
The international airport in the western U.S. city of Denver , Colorado , is expected to begin limited operations Friday , after two days of being shut down during the busiest travel days of the holiday season .
Thousands of people were stranded at the airport Wednesday when snowstorms hit the U.S. central plains region .
Some areas were buried under as much as 61 centimeters of snow .
In Colorado - a mountainous state where heavy snow is common - the storm shut down not just the airport but several major highways and postal delivery .
Airport authorities say they will open two runways Friday after they are swept clear of snow .
But they are warning passengers to expect further delays as the airlines now deal with a two-day backlog of passengers .
Many travelers are rushing to get to the homes of friends and family before Christmas Day on Monday December 25 .
The U.S. State Department has expressed its sympathy and solidarity with Poland over the death this week of its first post-communist Foreign Minister , Krzysztof Skubiszewski .
State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley says Skubiszewski paved the way for Poland 's eventual membership in NATO and the strong alliance between Poland and the United States .
He called Skubiszewski a great statesman and visionary .
Skubiszewski died Monday at age 83 .
No cause of death was announced .
He was Poland 's first foreign minister after the fall of communism in 1989 .
He held the post until 1993 .
Skubiszewski opened talks with NATO and worked towards reconciliation with Germany .
Scientists at the National Geographic Society 's headquarters in Washington have revealed early details of an extraordinary archaeological find .
Two graveyards discovered in Northern Niger are providing important insight into life in the African Sahara when it was green and lush .
The Ugandan military says it attacked a hideout of rebel leader Joseph Kony in southern Sudan this week , killing four of his bodyguards .
A military spokesman , Lieutenant Chris Magezi , says soldiers clashed with rebels commanded by Kony southwest of Juba on Tuesday .
The spokesman says one Ugandan soldier was wounded in the battle .
He says Kony and his fighters are now fleeing a Ugandan offensive , heading toward the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Sudan allows Ugandan forces to pursue Kony and other leaders of the rebel Lord 's Resistance Army on its territory .
The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants for Kony and four other LRA leaders .
The group is notorious for its brutality and use of child soldiers in northern Uganda .
The group 's 20-year uprising has displaced more than 1.5 million people .
Russian police have detained at least 30 anti-government protesters in Moscow , including a prize-winning 82-year-old human rights activist .
Opposition demonstrators gathered in central Moscow 's Triumfalnaya square Thursday in support of their constitutional right to freedom of assembly .
They shouted slogans against Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin , saying he has reversed democratic reform .
News reports from Moscow say 82-year-old Russian dissident Lyudmila Alexeyeva was among those arrested .
She is one of this year 's recipients of the European Parliament 's Sakharov prize for freedom of thought .
She is a founding member of the Moscow Helsinki group , one of Russia 's oldest human rights organizations .
A White House statement issued Thursday says the Obama administration is dismayed that Russian authorities prevented citizens from exercising their right to assemble peacefully .
The statement says freedom of speech and assembly are universal rights that all governments should recognize and defend .
At least 10 civilians died Thursday when Pakistani troops fired shells aimed at militants who are trying to impose strict Islamic law in northwestern Swat valley .
Local police say at least one home was destroyed in Allahabad village during the incident .
At least nine other people were wounded .
Pakistani troops have been trying to eject fighters loyal to cleric Maulana Fazlullah , who have taken control of some police checkpoints and towns in Swat .
Closer to the border with Afghanistan , five Pakistani soldiers in a truck were killed today by a roadside bomb that went off in North Waziristan .
Earlier this week , the Pakistani army reported gains in its battle against Islamists in Swat , saying troops had recaptured a strategic mountain peak .
The army also said it had shut down the FM radio station used by Fazlullah to call for strict Islamic law and a holy war against the Pakistani government .
Hundreds of people angry over the rising cost of food demonstrated in eastern Afghanistan Tuesday .
Protesters blocked a key road connecting the town of Jalalabad to the capital , Kabul .
They demanded action from the government to bring down skyrocketing prices .
Earlier , the Afghan government announced it is setting aside $ 50 million to buy wheat from other countries , including Kazakhstan and neighboring Pakistan .
Many demonstrators expressed anger with Pakistan - upon which Afghans are heavily reliant for food imports .
Pakistan has recently slowed its exports due to its own concerns about rising food prices .
Elsewhere , in the western Afghan province of Herat , authorities say they believe militants have abducted two foreign employees of a U.S. security company .
Police say an Indian and a Nepalese worker disappeared Monday evening while traveling in the Adraskan district .
Their driver also is missing .
A U.S. soldier charged in the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal in Iraq has pleaded guilty to one count of dereliction of duty .
Military officials announced Tuesday that Army Specialist Megan Ambuhl entered her plea last Saturday at a summary court-martial in Baghdad .
Army officials also say she was demoted to private and docked half a month 's pay .
The 30-year-old woman is the third soldier from a military police company in Maryland to plead guilty to charges stemming from the scandal .
Officials say she failed to prevent or report the abuse by other U.S. soldiers .
She could have faced at least seven years in prison on other charges .
The scandal erupted in April when photographs of U.S. soldiers taunting and humiliating naked Iraqi prisoners became public , sparking worldwide condemnation .
Burundi 's army says it killed at least 17 National Liberation Forces rebel fighters in recent clashes .
At least one soldier and a civilian also were killed in fighting that began late Friday in a village west of the capital , Bujumbura
The government says FNL rebels were robbing the village when the army intervened to stop them .
The FNL signed a peace agreement with the government in July 2006 , but the accord was broken about a year later .
The U.S. military in Iraq says American troops have detained six suspects in connection with last week 's assassination of Baghdad provincial governor Ali al-Haidari .
Acting on a tip from residents , soldiers seized the suspects early Tuesday in a house in the same western Baghdad neighborhood where the governor was gunned down .
Meanwhile , near the northern city of Mosul , two Iraqi National Guards were killed and two wounded in a car bomb attack Wednesday .
A similar attack in the area Tuesday killed three other guardsmen .
Iraqi officials , police and national guards have been prime targets of insurgents who are seeking to further destabilize the country before the January 30 elections .
Despite the violence , interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi and President Bush have said the vote for a national assembly must go ahead .
A British court has remanded into custody the first suspect formally charged in connection with the failed July 21 bombings on the London transport system .
Ismael Abdurahman , who appeared in a London court Thursday , is accused of withholding information that may have helped police find those involved in terrorism .
Meanwhile , thousands of British police are patrolling the streets of London , four weeks after the July 7 bomb attacks on the city 's transit system that killed 56 people , including four suicide bombers .
In another development , an Italian court has scheduled an August 17 extradition hearing for one of the suspects in the July 21 failed London bombings .
British authorities have alleged that Hamdi Issac , also known as Osman Hussein , fled to Italy after he and three other men tried to set off bombs .
Mr. Issac , a British citizen of Ethiopian descent , was arrested last Friday .
Afghan warlord Abdul Rashid Dostum has narrowly escaped an assassination attempt that wounded 20 other people .
Officials say a suicide bomber blew himself up near the general outside a northern mosque where the warlord had been praying for the Eid al-Adha Muslim festival .
General Dostum says he believes al-Qaida was behind the attack .
But the Associated Press quotes a Taleban leader saying the Taleban carried out the attack .
Meanwhile a statement purportedly from Taleban leader Mullah Omar dismissed reports that the radical Islamic movement 's fighters were willing to lay down arms in exchange for amnesty .
A statement to news agencies says the Taleban will not enter into a dialogue with the Afghan government as long as foreign soldiers remain in Afghanistan .
A defiant Iranian president says the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency can issue as many resolutions as it likes , but says it can not prevent Iranian progress .
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad spoke Sunday , one day after the International Atomic Energy Agency voted overwhelmingly to report Iran to the U.N. Security Council over its suspect nuclear program .
Iran insists its nuclear program is peaceful , but Western governments accuse Tehran of seeking to build an atomic bomb .
"In comments reported by the Iranian news agency , the Iranian president pointed to the West and said "" it is you who have atomic weapons and should be disarmed . """
He said Iran has no need for a nuclear arsenal .
Earlier , the Iranian Foreign Ministry confirmed that Tehran has stopped all cooperation with the IAEA and will go forward with plans to enrich uranium - a process that can be used either to make an atomic bomb or to generate electricity .
NATO says an explosion in Afghanistan 's eastern province of Ghazni has killed two soldiers and a civilian interpreter .
In a statement released Wednesday , NATO officials say the soldiers and the interpreter were on patrol Tuesday when they were hit by the blast .
NATO says a third soldier was wounded .
NATO did not release the nationalities of the soldiers .
Meanwhile , German officials Wednesday announced the arrest of two men they say were planning an attack on a NATO base in the northern Afghan city of Mazar-i-Sharif .
Officials say Afghan authorities stopped the men - from Pakistan and Tajikistan - last week in a car stuffed with explosives .
Thousands of Afghans have staged a peaceful protest against the killing of a prominent pro-government Muslim cleric in a mosque bomb blast .
At least 5,000 people Sunday took to the streets in the eastern Afghan province of Khost , where Mullah Ahmad Khan was killed Friday during midday prayers .
At least 15 worshippers were wounded in the blast .
The protesters urged the government to provide better security for religious leaders .
No one has claimed responsibility for the attack .
But authorities blame Taleban insurgents who have in the past killed several influential clerics who had denounced the militants and expressed support for President Hamid Karzai .
President Bush is to meet his Russian counterpart , Vladimir Putin , in Washington later this month for talks on bilateral and global issues .
The White House said Friday the two leaders will discuss ways to deepen the U.S.-Russian partnership to face current challenges and opportunities .
The September 16th meeting will follow a summit of leaders of the United Nations Security Council , focusing on ways to combat terrorism .
Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush have stressed they have a close relationship , despite some differences over international policy .
Moscow has been critical of the war in Iraq , and the United States has called on Russia to do more to promote human rights in the former Soviet Union .
"A series of rebel attacks in Iraq have killed some 25 people as U.S. officials pledge to investigate recent "" friendly fire "" killings ."
A suicide attack killed at least 15 people and wounded nearly two dozen more north of Baghdad .
Nearby in Baquba , rebel attacks on Iraqi soldiers and police killed at least 10 people .
Also Monday , Iraqi officials issued new photos of wanted Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab al Zarqawi , showing him with short hair and a closely cropped beard .
His group reportedly claimed responsibility for several of Monday 's attacks .
Also today , Bulgaria 's defense minister Nikolai Svinarov says an investigation shows U.S. troops were probably responsible for the shooting death of a Bulgarian soldier last Friday .
That same day , U.S. troops shot dead an Italian intelligence agent at a checkpoint .
U.S. officials have ordered investigations into both incidents .
The U.S. Senate is to vote later Thursday , on an immigration reform bill that would toughen border security and give millions of illegals a chance to become American citizens .
On Wednesday , the Senate voted to limit debate on the controversial legislation .
Two other provisions in the bill would create a so-called guest worker program and would deport illegal immigrants who have been in the country for fewer than five years .
If the Senate passes the legislation , it will have to be reconciled with a bill passed by the House of Representatives last December .
That bill emphasized border security and would make it a felony to be in the United States illegally .
The issue has sparked widespread demonstrations across the United States .
An international development group is working to raise $ 2 billion in aid to help rebuild and reform Haiti 's education system .
The Inter-American Development Bank is leading a proposed five-year effort to train teachers , improve facilities and adopt a national curriculum .
More than 4,000 schools were damaged or destroyed during the earthquake in January that killed more than 2,00,000 people .
The IDB says that before the earthquake , only half of Haiti 's children of primary school age were enrolled in classes .
Haitian President Rene Preval announced the plan Saturday along with IDB President Luis Alberto Moreno .
President Bush says the United States needs better intelligence efforts to make gains in its global war on terrorism .
In an interview with CNN , the president said Tuesday that human intelligence efforts need to be improved .
He said the ability to read the enemy 's mail and hear its phone calls would make a difference in fighting terrorism .
Mr. Bush said a commission has been formed to determine how best to improve human intelligence gathering .
During the interview , President Bush said the United States has not done as good a job in promoting American values as propagandists have in depicting America as a hateful place .
Mr. Bush also acknowledged he has made difficult decisions , including the one to invade Iraq , that have hindered American diplomacy in the Middle East .
But , the president predicted that a free country will emerge in Iraq , proving the merit of his policies there .
The Los Angeles Times is reporting that the Bush Administration has forged a strong intelligence partnership with Sudan , and the African nation has become an ally in the U.S.-led war on terror .
The newspaper cites U.S. government sources as saying Khartoum has provided access to terror suspects and has shared intelligence data with the United States , even though it remains on the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism .
The report says the Central Intelligence Agency has flown Sudan 's intelligence chief to Washington as recently as last week .
In exchange for its collaboration , the Times says Sudan is seeking to be removed from the list of state sponsors of terrorism and for Washington to lift economic sanctions .
A decade ago , Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network were based in Sudan .
A new report from the International Monetary Fund says global economic growth will slow more than one percent this year .
The IMF study says global growth will decline to 3.7 percent in 2008 and stay at about the same level the following year .
The economists blame the slowdown on problems in advanced economies , particularly the United States .
But they say developing nations are weathering this economic down-turn better than they have similar incidents in the past because they are better integrated into the world economy .
Many developing nations have benefited from major price increases for the commodities they export , and have worked to diversify their economies to ease the ups and downs that affect commodity markets .
Hong Kong 's charter carrier , CR Airways , has purchased 40 Boeing planes in a deal worth more than $ 3 billion .
The carrier Tuesday said it bought 30 Boeing 737-800 airliners and 10 Boeing 787s in order to expand its services in China and Asia .
The deal is the latest in a series of recent boosts for the American manufacturer .
Earlier this month , Hong Kong flag carrier Cathay Pacific bought more than 30 Boeing aircraft in a nearly $ 3-billion deal .
And in November , China said it plans to buy 70 Boeing 737 airliners in a deal worth $ 4 billion .
Police in northern Iraq say security forces have killed at least two people and wounded several others who were protesting a rise in fuel prices and lack of basic services in the city .
Authorities say Sunday 's riot broke out in a mainly Kurdish district of Kirkuk , as angry protesters set fire to several gas stations and an oil company building in the city .
Police later imposed a curfew .
In Baghdad , a bomb blast near one of Iraq 's largest oil refineries triggered a pipeline fire that threatened to worsen the country 's oil crisis .
The bombing was the second in recent days .
Meanwhile , Iraqi police say at least 11 car bombs - most of them in Baghdad - exploded Sunday , wounding at least 20 people .
Sudanese officials say they are readying trials against suspects accused of rape and murder in the western Darfur region .
Authorities say the trials may include government officials and security forces in the troubled area .
Sudan 's Justice Minister , Ali Mohamed Osman Yassin , told Reuters news agency Monday that 15 police and security agents have been detained for alleged abuses .
He vowed to continue an investigation into human rights violations and crimes against humanity in Darfur .
The United States and other countries have been pressing Sudan 's government to end violence in Darfur and punish those responsible .
The U.N. Security Council this week is to consider a French proposal to send Darfur suspects to the International Criminal Court .
Sudan 's foreign minister , Mustapha Osman Ismail , says his country would refuse the measure , if passed .
"A manuscript of composer Ludwig van Beethoven 's "" Gross Fuge "" has sold at a London auction house for $ 1.9 million ."
Sotheby auctioneers say an anonymous buyer purchased the manuscript , which was discovered in a library at the Palmer Theological Seminary in Philadelphia .
The 80-page document , first performed in 1826 , is a piano duet version of Beethoven 's string quartet in B flat .
It is written in brown and black ink and includes annotations in pencil and red crayon .
"The head of Sotheby 's manuscript department says the rediscovery of the document will allow a complete reassessment of what he called "" extraordinary music . """
Beethoven , who continued to work as he slowly went deaf , wrote the work in the years prior to his death in 1827 .
Iraqi authorities say they have foiled an insurgent plot to bomb the trial of Saddam Hussein , which resumes in Baghdad Monday .
They say the attackers from the 1920 Revolution Brigades planned to fire rockets at the court building .
Few other details were released .
The alleged attack plot was the latest security issue to plague the trial , including the assassination of two defense lawyers .
During Monday 's session , the first of 10 witnesses is expected to testify .
Saddam and seven members of his former regime are charged with the torture and killing of more than 140 people in the mainly Shi'ite Muslim town of Dujail following a 1982 attempt on his life there .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard has confirmed that U.S. intelligence agencies had restricted his country 's access to classified material on the war in Iraq , forcing him to repeatedly appeal to President Bush for access .
Mr. Howard says , prior to 2005 , the U.S. Defense Department had restricted Australian military access to vital information on Iraq .
Mr. Bush signed an order in July 2004 granting Australia and Britain special access to intelligence for use in planning combat and counter-terrorism operations .
But Mr. Howard said U.S. agencies initially resisted the order because of their reluctance to share information .
The Australian leader says the U.S. intelligence restrictions were lifted last year , after he again appealed to Mr. Bush to deliver on his commitments .
The Iranian government has closed an official newspaper because of a cartoon the paper ran last Friday .
State television quotes the country 's chief prosecutor Saeed Mortazavi Tuesday as saying the paper 's cartoonist Mana Neyestani and one of its editors have been detained .
The cartoon , which poked fun at ethnic Azeris , sparked riots in the northwestern city of Tabriz , the capital of Eastern Azerbaijan province .
The cartoon portrayed an Azeri as a cockroach who was speaking Azeri .
On Monday , rioting Azeris pelted government buildings with stones .
Police used tear gas to disperse them .
About 25 percent of Iran 's population is Azeri .
Azeris speak a language close to Turkish .
The Indonesian government and rebels from Aceh province plan to sign a formal peace deal on August 15 .
The agreement will bring an end to a nearly three-decade war between the Free Aceh Movement and the government in Jakarta .
"A joint statement following peace talks in Helsinki , Finland , Sunday says the agreement will bring "" a peaceful , comprehensive , and sustainable "" solution to the conflict in Aceh , which has cost some 12,000 lives since 1976 ."
Though details of the agreement have not been released , the two sides say it covers political participation , human rights , an amnesty , and security arrangements in the province .
Peace efforts gained momentum this year following the December tsunami that devastated Indonesia 's Sumatra island , where Aceh is located .
Iraqi police said a suicide car bomber has killed 10 people in Kirkuk .
Police said the attacker appeared to target a group of police officers protecting the northern city 's oil infrastructure .
Officials said 22 other people were injured in Wednesday 's attack .
Tensions remain high in Kirkuk , whose status has yet to be resolved .
Iraqi Kurds , Arabs , and Turkmen lay competing claims to the oil-rich city .
Violence has dropped across much of the country , but al-Qaida in Iraq maintains a foothold in areas across the north .
The European Union has opened membership talks with Croatia after the United Nations ' chief war crimes prosecutor said the Balkan country is now cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw led a brief ceremony early Tuesday formally opening the talks .
Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader attended the event .
The European Union postponed membership talks with Croatia in March when U.N. war crimes prosecutor Carla del Ponte said Zagreb was not doing enough to find indicted war crimes suspect General Ante Gotovina .
Ms. del Ponte said Monday Croatia is now fully cooperating with the tribunal , but the EU ministers warn talks could be called off again if Zagreb does not continue its compliance with the Hague court .
Croatia hopes to join the European Union in 2009 .
The United Nations Security Council has called on Lebanon to expand its security presence in the south , following the withdrawal of Syrian troops .
In a resolution passed to Friday , the Council said Lebanese troops must show they can maintain security in the country , especially along the southern boundary with Israel .
The measure condemned violence between Israeli troops and Hezbollah militants in the area , including a June incident that killed three people .
The Security Council also agreed to extend until January a U.N. mission in Lebanon , which includes some two thousand peacekeepers .
That U.N. force was created in 1978 to confirm Israel 's withdrawal from Lebanon , after Israeli troops invaded the country in search of Palestinian militants .
Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $ 27 a share , or $ 212 mi llion .
The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end .
The United Kingdom has historically played a leading role in developing parliamentary democracy and in advancing literature and science .
At its zenith in the 19th century , the British Empire stretched over one-fourth of the earth 's surface .
The first half of the 20th century saw the UK 's strength seriously depleted in two world wars and the Irish republic withdraw from the union .
The second half witnessed the dismantling of the Empire and the UK rebuilding itself into a modern and prosperous European nation .
As one of five permanent members of the UN Security Council , a founding member of NATO , and of the Commonwealth , the UK pursues a global approach to foreign policy .
The UK is also an active member of the EU , although it chose to remain outside the Economic and Monetary Union .
The Scottish Parliament , the National Assembly for Wales , and the Northern Ireland Assembly were established in 1999 .
The latter was suspended until May 2007 due to wrangling over the peace process , but devolution was fully completed in March 2010 .
Although explored by the Spanish early in the 16th century , initial attempts at colonizing Costa Rica proved unsuccessful due to a combination of factors , including : disease from mosquito-infested swamps , brutal heat , resistance by natives , and pirate raids .
It was not until 1563 that a permanent settlement of Cartago was established in the cooler , fertile central highlands .
The area remained a colony for some two and a half centuries .
In 1821 , Costa Rica became one of several Central American provinces that jointly declared their independence from Spain .
Two years later it joined the United Provinces of Central America , but this federation disintegrated in 1838 , at which time Costa Rica proclaimed its sovereignty and independence .
Since the late 19th century , only two brief periods of violence have marred the country 's democratic development .
In 1949 , Costa Rica dissolved its armed forces .
Although it still maintains a large agricultural sector , Costa Rica has expanded its economy to include strong technology and tourism industries .
The standard of living is relatively high .
Land ownership is widespread .
Subsistence fishing and commercial trawling occur within refuge waters .
The economy is dominated by the mining industry , with exports of alumina , gold , and oil accounting for about 85 % of exports and 25 % of government revenues , making the economy highly vulnerable to mineral price volatility .
In 2000 , the government of Ronald VENETIAAN , returned to office and inherited an economy with inflation of over 100 % and a growing fiscal deficit .
He quickly implemented an austerity program , raised taxes , attempted to control spending , and tamed inflation .
Economic growth reached about 7 % in 2008 , owing to sizeable foreign investment in mining and oil .
Suriname has received aid for projects in the bauxite and gold mining sectors from Netherlands , Belgium , and the European Development Fund .
The economy slowed in 2009 , however , as investment waned and the country earned less from its commodity exports when global prices for most commodities fell .
Trade picked up , boosting Suriname 's economic growth in 2010 , but the government 's budget remained strained , with increased social spending during the election .
In January 2011 , the government devalued the currency by 20 % and raised taxes to reduce the budget deficit .
Suriname 's economic prospects for the medium term will depend on continued commitment to responsible monetary and fiscal policies and to the introduction of structural reforms to liberalize markets and promote competition .
Carib Indians inhabited Grenada when COLUMBUS discovered the island in 1498 , but it remained uncolonized for more than a century .
The French settled Grenada in the 17th century , established sugar estates , and imported large numbers of African slaves .
Britain took the island in 1762 and vigorously expanded sugar production .
In the 19th century , cacao eventually surpassed sugar as the main export crop ; in the 20th century , nutmeg became the leading export .
In 1967 , Britain gave Grenada autonomy over its internal affairs .
Full independence was attained in 1974 making Grenada one of the smallest independent countries in the Western Hemisphere .
Grenada was seized by a Marxist military council on 19 October 1983 .
Six days later the island was invaded by US forces and those of six other Caribbean nations , which quickly captured the ringleaders and their hundreds of Cuban advisers .
Free elections were reinstituted the following year and have continued since that time .
Hurricane Ivan struck Grenada in September of 2004 causing severe damage .
A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel , of which the crew and passengers were all drowned .
He inveighed against the injustice of Providence , which would for the sake of one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent persons to perish .
As he was indulging in these reflections , he found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants , near whose nest he was standing .
One of them climbed up and stung him , and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot .
"Mercury presented himself , and striking the Philosopher with his wand , said , "" And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the dealings of Providence , who hast thyself in a similar manner treated these poor Ants ? '"
Israeli troops have detained a top member of the Palestinian militant group Hamas during a raid on an apartment building in the West Bank city of Tulkarem .
Rami al-Tayyah has been wanted by Israel since 2002 in connection with the recruitment of militants and the establishment of Hamas cells suspected of carrying out shootings and bomb attacks against Israeli citizens .
Also Saturday , Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed Qureia accused Israel of hampering efforts to restart peace efforts following the death of Yasser Arafat .
Mr. Qureia told his cabinet that Israel 's continued military aggression sends a clear message that it does not want to allow things to quiet down and bring the peace process back on track .
Mr. Qureia 's criticism came as German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer arrived in the region for talks with Israeli and Palestinian leaders .
Authorities in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul say two Christian churches have been the target of nearly simultaneous bomb attacks .
Witnesses say gunmen stormed the Armenian and Chaldean churches Tuesday , planting explosives that detonated , setting the buildings on fire .
No casualties have been confirmed .
Iraq 's minority Christian community has been the target of attacks before , most recently last month when three people were killed in a bomb attack on a Baghdad church .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed Tuesday while on patrol in Baghdad .
"Afghan President Hamid Karzai has urged Afghan and coalition forces to use "" extreme caution "" as they root out Islamic militants ."
In a statement Sunday , Mr. Karzai expressed concern over civilian deaths in recent weeks as a result of counter-terror operations in civilian areas .
He said that while his government is committed to combating terrorism , it is also responsible for safety of the Afghan people .
The statement comes two days after three civilians , including a woman and a child , were killed in a U.S. air strike against a suspected militant hideout .
Four suspected militants were also killed in the incident in central Uruzgan province .
Two more children were wounded and taken to a U.S. base in the southern city of Kandahar for treatment .
When talking about paintings and contemporary art , names such as Pablo Picasso , Georgia O'Keeffe , Vincent Van Gogh and others often come to mind .
But , as we are about to show you , there is a whole body of artwork on Africa , by European and African artists that is largely unknown .
Primimoda Gallery , located in the heart of Washington , is where you will find this art .
Ndimyake Mwakalyelye tells us more .
The world 's biggest maker of computer chips is investing more than $ 1 billion in India over the next five years .
The investment was announced Monday by Intel Chairman .
Much of the money will go to expand Intel 's research and development center in Bangalore .
That operation already employs 2,800 people .
Intel officials say around $ 250 million is going into a fund to stimulate local technology innovation , particularly in technology oriented service companies that target overseas markets .
Intel has been operating in India for a decade , and has already invested about $ 700 million there .
"Mr. Barrett says India is one of the world 's "" leading technology centers "" and he expects this investment to help the country grow further ."
The United States will host Croatia in the opening round of the 2005 Davis Cup tennis tournament .
The U.S. Tennis Association announced Thursday the games will be played on the hardcourts at Carson , California near Los Angeles .
The three-day tie ( series ) beginning on March 4 could be the start of a title defense for the American squad .
The United States faces host Spain starting Friday in the Davis Cup final on clay at Seville .
The United States is trying to win its first Davis Cup crown since 1995 .
In the only previous Davis Cup match between the countries , Croatia defeated the US squad , 04-Jan , in a 2003 first-round tie at Zagreb .
The winner will face either Romania or Belarus in the second round next July .
At least five policemen have been killed in a militant attack on a security camp in Indian-controlled Kashmir .
Local authorities say the attack occurred early Friday , in the border town of Sopore , about 50 kilometers north of Srinagar .
Police say the militants hurled grenades and fired indiscriminately as they stormed the camp .
It was not immediately clear how many rebels were involved in the attack .
The Pakistan-based rebel group Al-Mansoorain claimed responsibility for the attack .
Al-Mansoorain is one of more than a dozen Islamic militant groups fighting security forces in India 's portion of Kashmir for the region 's independence or for its merger with Pakistan .
A European Space Agency probe has completed a three-year mission to test deep space technologies by making a controlled crash on the moon .
The SMART-1 probe hit the lunar surface at 542 UTC Sunday on a volcanic plain called the Lake of Excellence at a speed of about 7,200 kilometers per hour .
It had orbited the moon for the past 14 months .
"Mission manager Gerhard Schwehm calls Europe 's first mission to the moon "" a great success . """
The probe 's main mission was to test a solar-electric propulsion system the European Space Agency hopes to use for future interplanetary missions .
SMART-1 also carried miniaturized scientific instruments to examine the lunar surface .
SMART stands for Small Mission for Advanced Research and Technology .
The craft was launched in September of 2003 , and began orbiting the moon in November of 2004 .
Witnesses in Somalia say gunmen have killed the head of an orphanage near the capital , Mogadishu .
Abdikadir Yusuf Kariye was shot dead by unidentified assailants late Wednesday in the town of Lafoole .
Reuters news agency reports that Kariye 's orphanage is home to 370 children .
There has been no claim of responsibility for the killing .
Attacks on aid workers in Somalia have forced some relief agencies to suspend their operations , endangering hundreds of thousands of people who rely on food aid and medical aid .
The United Nations has warned of a possible humanitarian catastrophe in Somalia , which has not had a functioning central government in 17 years .
U.S. lawmakers say they plan legislation that would fund efforts to help Iranians receive and send information despite government restrictions .
"Independent Senator Joe Lieberman said Thursday that the bill intends to help the Iranian people stay "" one step ahead of the Iranian regime . """
Lieberman introduced the bill with Republican Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham .
McCain said the proposed legislation would authorize funds to ensure Iranians have the software and other tools to evade government censorship and surveillance online .
The legislation would also authorize VOA 's Persian service to make permanent an additional hour of programming that was added to cover the post-election violence .
More funding would also be provided to the U.S. government-sponsored Radio Farda to boost the broadcaster 's short-wave radio and satellite capacity .
Cambodian authorities have detained a fifth suspect in the 12-year-old kidnapping and murder case of two men who were clearing land mines .
Former Khmer Rouge fighters abducted Christopher Howes of Bristol , England , and his interpreter Huon Huot along with other members of a team removing land mines near Cambodia 's Angor Wat temple in 1996 .
Most of the team was released , but evidence later showed Howes and Huot were executed in rebel-held territory .
Cambodian authorities took 52-year-old Puth Lim into custody and charged him in the case Friday .
Five other former Khmer Rouge fighters also face charges which could carry a life sentence if convicted .
Following years of debate and delay , Germany has dedicated a national memorial to the six million Jews killed by the Nazis during World War II .
"Dignitaries and survivors of the Nazi death camps dedicated the "" Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe "" Tuesday in Berlin ."
The speaker of Germany 's lower house of parliament , Wolfgang Thierse , said the memorial will keep the memory of Holocaust victims and of Nazi crimes alive .
The two-hectare memorial , designed by New York architect Peter Eisenman , consists of 2,711 unadorned concrete slabs and an underground research center Experts say the memorial evokes the rigid discipline and order of the Nazi killing machine .
First proposed in the late 1980s , the memorial was only recently completed because of arguments over its size , design and whether it should honor non-Jewish Holocaust victims .
It will open to the public on Thursday .
A Norwegian aid group says it will shut down operations in Sudan 's Darfur region because of government interference .
The Norwegian Refugee Council says Sudan has suspended the group for a total of 210 days since mid-2004 .
The group 's secretary-general , Tomas Archer , says his workers can not operate when authorities suspend the group continuously and do not respond to repeated requests for dialogue .
The N.R.C. provides assistance at three large camps for internally displaced Sudanese .
The group says its departure will affect 3,00,000 people in South Darfur .
Sudanese officials are often suspicious of foreign aid agencies working in Darfur and they target groups that criticize government actions and policies .
Sudan continues to resist international pressure to allow a U.N. peacekeeping forces into the volatile region .
More than three years of fighting between rebels and government-backed militias has killed an estimated 2,00,000 people and displaced over two million since early 2003 .
Haiti 's chief elections official has fled the country after receiving threats following this month 's presidential elections .
Officials say Jacques Bernard flew to the United States on Sunday , a day after his farmhouse was ransacked .
Bernard was accused by some people who supported candidate Rene Preval of manipulating the vote count to prevent Preval from claiming an outright victory and avoid a runoff vote .
Preval was declared the winner last week in an internationally-brokered decision to divide 85,000 blank ballots proportionately among the candidates .
A boat accident in Bangladesh has killed at least 37 people , most of them women and children .
Authorities say many of the male passengers were able to swim ashore .
Local officials say the boat capsized on the Surma river in northeastern Bangladesh late Saturday after colliding with a cargo ship .
Officials say at least 80 people were on board the boat .
Officials say the area where the boat went down , in the Sunamganj district about 240 kilometers northeast of Dhaka , is in one of the most remote parts of the country , making it difficult for additional help to reach the site .
Bangladesh has more than 200 rivers .
Boat accidents are common due to lax safety regulations .
The Cayman Islands are under a tropical storm warning and a hurricane watch , as a new tropical depression is taking shape in the northwest Caribbean Sea .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the system could strengthen into Tropical Storm Wilma later Sunday .
Wilma would be the 21st named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season , tying a record set in 1933 .
At daybreak , the depression was centered 325 kilometers southeast of Grand Cayman Island and had sustained winds of 55 kilometers per hour .
The hurricane center says the storm will likely bring heavy rains to the Caymans and Jamaica .
Long-range forecasts show the storm possibly moving into the Gulf of Mexico next week .
Several U.S. cities along the Gulf coast are still reeling from Hurricane Katrina .
Sri Lankan officials say suspected Tamil Tiger rebels have detonated a mine in northern Sri Lanka , killing two sailors and wounding another .
Officials say the attack occurred Saturday , on the northern Jaffna peninsula .
In a separate incident Saturday , unidentified attackers in the eastern town of Batticaloa hurled a grenade into the parking area of a compound occupied by truce monitors , damaging vehicles but causing no injuries .
A spokeswoman for the monitoring mission says the attack was the first targeting the monitors since a 2002 cease-fire .
The unarmed monitors are all from Scandinavian countries .
The explosion came hours after the monitors reprimanded Tamil Tiger rebels and government forces for an increase in violence .
Sri Lanka 's government says at least 69 members of its security forces have been killed by rebels since early December .
Forensic experts have concluded work on a mass grave in northwestern Bosnia-Herzegovina , exhuming 454 bodies .
An official , Esad Bajramovic , of the Commission on Missing Persons in Bosnia 's Muslim-Croat Federation says documents found in the village of Kevljani near the town of Prijedor indicate the victims were Muslim and Croat residents of the area .
He says many of the victims are believed to have been inmates of the notorious Serb-run Omarska and Keraterm prison camps in the Prijedor area .
The victims are believed to have been buried in other areas then moved to Kevljani .
United Nations forensic experts have recovered more than 16,000 bodies from more than 300 mass graves in Bosnia .
More than 2,00,000 people were killed in the Bosnian conflict of the early 1990s .
Officials in Indian Kashmir say at least two soldiers and six suspected militants have been killed during a clash in the Himalayan region .
Officials say at least one soldier was also wounded in Saturday 's clash 220 kilometers north of Jammu , the winter capital of Indian Kashmir .
Authorities say the suspected militants were trying to sneak into the Indian-controlled portion of Kashmir when the fighting began .
Kashmiri militant groups have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir 's independence or its merger with Pakistan .
The insurgency has killed tens of thousands of people .
Iran says it has agreed with Russia to increase the number of countries joining a plan for Tehran to carry out sensitive nuclear fuel work in Russia .
Speaking to reporters Saturday in Tehran , Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said possible locations for uranium enrichment are still under review .
Moscow 's idea to have Iran enrich uranium in facilities in Russia where the work can be closely monitored is seen as a way out of a growing crisis over Tehran 's nuclear ambitions .
The United States , China and the European Union support the proposal .
Meanwhile , the chief of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards , General Yahya Rahim Safavi , said Saturday his country would use ballistic missiles to defend itself if attacked .
President Bush told the CBS television network Friday he is open to all possible options for dealing with Iran , including military intervention .
But he said that would be the last option .
President Bush has sent holiday greetings to all Muslims as they celebrate the Eid al-Adha religious festival .
In a statement issued Friday , Mr. Bush said Eid al-Adha is an important occasion to give thanks for blessings and to remember Abraham 's trust in a loving God .
Eid al-Adha , the festival of sacrifice , commemorates the willingness of the prophet Abraham to sacrifice his son in obedience to God .
According to scripture , Allah did not require Abraham to go through with the sacrifice .
Mr. Bush said Muslims would celebrate with friends and family , exchanging gifts and greetings , and engaging in worship through sacrifice and charity .
The president said America is a more hopeful nation because of the talents , generosity and compassion of Muslim citizens .
Lawmakers on Cyprus have ratified the European Union treaty , despite opposition from the communist party of President Dimitris Christofias .
The Mediterranean island-nation Thursday became the 20th EU state to ratify the treaty , after 31 lawmakers out of 49 present in Nicosia voted in favor .
The charter is aimed at streamlining EU bureaucracy and making it easier for the European Commission to enact policy .
The Cyprus vote comes less than a month after Irish voters rejected the treaty in a referendum .
All 27 nations must ratify the treaty for it to take effect .
Advocates say it remains unclear whether the charter can be salvaged after the Irish defeat .
The head of the United Nations refugee agency says relief efforts in earthquake-ravaged Pakistan should concentrate now on creating conditions for people to be able to withstand the harsh Himalayan winter .
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres made the remark Thursday during his visit to Pakistan 's quake zone .
The visit is aimed at reviewing relief operations and meeting with local leaders .
He said billions of dollars in aid pledges by donors must materialize before cold and hunger claim more lives .
While touring the devastated capital of Pakistani Kashmir , Muzaffarabad , Mr. Guterres also noted the time has come to repay the country for generously hosting millions of Afghan refugees .
His visit comes a day after Australian Prime Minister John Howard toured quake-hit areas and pledged nearly U.S. $ 37 miillion in additional relief .
An exhibition is opening at the Imperial War Museum in London , marking the centenary of the birth of writer Ian Fleming , the man who created the world 's most famous secret agent , James Bond .
"Paul Burge has the story on the exhibit , titled "" For Your Eyes Only . """
U.S. troops in Fallujah have found a safe house which they say contains evidence linked to wanted militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi .
U.S. Lieutenant General John Sattler Thursday did not confirm the find , but he said coalition troops had found a number of insurgent headquarters in the city .
Embedded reporters in Fallujah say troops searching the safe house property found photographs , notes , ammunition and letters thought to be from al-Zarqawi .
Videotape shot by an American news crew also showed a mural pledging allegiance to the al Qaida terrorist network .
Several bodies lay outside the house , and soldiers found an American-made truck wired with explosives nearby .
U.S. and Iraqi officials have said the terrorist leader probably fled Fallujah ahead of the recent assault .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says fighting in two southern provinces has left four suspected militants dead and two Afghan police wounded .
A U.S. military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Jerry O'Hara says three insurgents were killed and two Afghan police officers wounded during a clash Friday in the Deh Rawood district of Uruzgan province .
One fighter was captured , along with a light machine gun and a rocket-propelled grenade .
The spokesman said that , on the same day , south of Kabul , one militant was killed when a group of insurgents attacked a U.S. and Afghan military convoy .
There has been an upsurge of violence in Afghanistan ahead of the September 18 parliamentary elections .
Hundreds of people have died in militant-related violence so far this year .
Former Darfur rebels said Friday they rescued a kidnapped Chinese worker in Sudan 's Darfur region .
Reuters news agency reports the engineer was in good health .
A Sudanese army spokesman said Wednesday he had information the engineer had been taken hostage in neighboring Chad .
Last month three Russian pilots were kidnapped in Sudan 's Darfur region at gunpoint and held for two days .
They were released one day after an American aid worker was freed in Darfur after being held captive for more than 100 days .
India has announced plans to pay an additional $ 160 million to victims of a 1984 anti-Sikh riot , in which more than 3,000 Sikhs were killed .
The Indian government said Thursday the families of those killed will receive a total of nearly $ 7,800 , while those injured in the riots will receive a total of $ 2,800 .
The decision to increase the funds given to riot victims came after a report released in August said some Congress party leaders may have helped incite the riots .
The riots were sparked by the 1984 assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi , by Sikh members of her security team .
Victims and their families say the compensation is not enough , and have demanded any politician who helped incite the riot be brought to justice .
The new head of the Palestinian Fatah movement has threatened to expel popular leader Marwan Barghouti unless he withdraws from the Palestinian presidential race .
Barghouti is seen as the only serious challenger to the official Fatah candidate , former prime minister Mahmoud Abbas .
Fatah chief Faruq Qaddumi says any member who goes against the group 's decisions should resign and have his membership cancelled .
The 45-year-old Barghouti is currently serving five life terms in an Israeli prison for planning suicide attacks .
Mr. Barghouti , who has denied involvement in the attacks , filed papers for the January 9th presidential race last Wednesday .
The winner of the race will succeed the late Yasser Arafat and lead the Palestinians as world powers try to revive the Middle East peace process .
Israel says it will not negotiate with Syria as long as Damascus supports terrorist groups , brushing off a Syrian offer of peace talks .
A spokeswoman for Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert Tuesday also criticized Syria for pro-Hezbollah statements made by its foreign minister , Walid Moualem during the month-long Israel-Hezbollah war .
Syria and Iran are believed to be key suppliers of weapons and money to Hezbollah .
In an interview broadcast Monday , Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said he is ready to hold talks with Israel but that an impartial arbiter should mediate between the two sides .
The Syrian leader said he doubts the U.S. can play that role .
He said Washington lacks the will and the vision to pursue peace in the Middle East .
Talks between Syria and Israel broke down in 2000 .
Syria has demanded that Israel return the entire Golan Heights .
Israel seized the Golan Heights in the 1967 Six-Day War .
Military officials in Iraq say a U.S. soldier was killed and nine others wounded Saturday when Iraqi insurgents attacked an Army patrol in central Baghdad .
The U.S. military says the unit came under what it called a coordinated attack of roadside bombs , small arms fire and rocket-propelled grenades .
Earlier , Iraqi insurgents attacked a police station in the Azamiyah district in northwest Baghdad , killing at least three policemen .
Clashes also broke out between gunmen and Iraqi security forces in Baghdad 's Amiriyah district .
Saturday 's violence came a day after Iraqi forces and U.S. soldiers raided a Sunni Muslim mosque in Baghdad known for its anti-American agitation and support for the former regime of Saddam Hussein .
Two people were killed during Friday 's raid and several others were arrested .
The United Nations ' top communications agency has called on Iran to stop jamming international satellite broadcasts .
The International Telecommunication Union said Friday interfering with foreign satellite signals is forbidden .
The agency stopped short of blaming the Iranian government , but indicated the source of the jamming was coming from Iranian soil .
The ITU released the statement after receiving complaints from France on behalf of satellite provider Eutelsat .
Eutelsat claims Iran blocked Persian broadcasts by the Voice of America and the BBC after June of last year , when a disputed presidential election in Iran sparked mass anti-government protests .
The European Union has also condemned the satellite jamming .
The U.N. agency does not have a means to force Iran to stop the satellite disruptions .
U.N. health officials and health ministers from several African countries are due to meet Wednesday in Geneva to discuss ways to stem rising polio numbers .
Ministers from Nigeria , Niger , Egypt , Burkina Faso , Ivory Coast , Sudan , the Central African Republic and Chad are due to take part in the talks .
The World Health Organization says the worldwide number of polio cases rose by more than 30 percent last year , to more than 1,170 .
The majority of cases were in Nigeria , India and Pakistan .
WHO efforts to eradicate the disease worldwide by the end of this year have been hampered by a months-long vaccine boycott in northern Nigeria , after opponents there said the vaccine was contaminated with infertility agents .
Polio attacks the nervous system , causing paralysis and sometimes death .
One computer company is working to add solar power to its portable devices , while another is developing a touch screen for the next version of its widely used software .
Macrumors.com , a website that closely watches developments at the Apple computer company , says the firm has asked for a patent on adding a solar panel to generate electricity for its portable phones and computers .
What is new is the idea of putting the solar panel beneath the devices ' display screens and touch screens , saving space .
Apple 's competitor , Microsoft , is developing a touch screen for the next version of its Windows software .
The touch screen could take over some of the work now done by a keyboard or computer mouse .
The White House says President Bush will meet with his counterparts from Liberia and the Democratic Republic of Congo in Washington later this month .
A pair of statements released Friday said Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf will visit the White House October 18 , followed by Congolese President Joseph Kabila eight days later .
The White House says Mr. Bush and Mrs. Sirleaf plan to discuss cooperation in the areas of education , reconstruction , trade , security and debt relief .
It says Mr. Bush and Mr. Kabila will focus on increasing cooperation on security sector reform and economic reconstruction in eastern Congo .
The Bush administration has been largely supportive of both countries ' governments since elections that brought Mrs. Sirleaf to power in 2005 and confirmed Mr. Kabila as Congo 's president last year .
Both countries are emerging from bloody civil wars that ruined much of their infrastructure .
Iraqi officials say bombings in two parts of the country have killed at least 13 people , including seven in an attack against a senior Iraqi Kurdish official .
Police say a roadside bomb in eastern Diyala province Sunday hit a convoy carrying Mohammed Ramadan , a senior member of Iraq 's Patriotic Union of Kurdistan party .
Authorities say the blast killed five members of Ramadan 's family and two of his guards .
The bomb wounded at least four other people , including Ramadan .
Separately today , police say a car bomb attack killed six people and wounded 14 others in northern Baghdad .
Authorities say three policemen were among those wounded in the attack on a police patrol in the capital 's Shaab neighborhood .
The United States and France have again called for the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon .
Speaking in London at a conference on Palestinian reforms , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and France 's foreign minister Michel Barnier called on Syria to implement the United Nations Security Council resolution aimed at ending foreign interference in Lebanon .
Ms. Rice said France and the United States are discussing ways to help Beirut ensure that its next elections are free and fair .
She also said the two countries are considering options aimed at stabilizing Lebanon if Syrian troops withdraw .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian government resigned Monday following mass protests and a no-confidence motion in parliament over the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Both the Syrian and the Lebanese governments have denied involvement in the February 14 attack that sparked anti-Syrian demonstrations .
Lebanon 's opposition leaders say protests will continue until Syria withdraws its 14,000 troops .
Indonesia 's military has started the final phase of troop withdrawals from Aceh province , as part of a peace accord to end a 30-year-long separatist insurgency .
An army spokesman said Tuesday 1,600 troops were being withdrawn , and more would follow next week .
Indonesia began the pullout a day after rebels from the Free Aceh Movement surrendered their final batch of weapons .
The peace agreement calls for Indonesian soldiers to leave Aceh , in parallel with militants handing over weapons to international monitors .
Under the deal , only 14,000 Indonesian soldiers are allowed to remain in Aceh after the military completes its last withdrawal .
Indonesia and the rebels signed the truce in August in a bid to help Aceh recover from last December 's devastating tsunami .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh have appealed for an end to the fighting between Hamas militiamen and the president 's Fatah faction .
At least eight people were killed and scores more wounded in the fighting which broke out Sunday in the Gaza Strip and Ramallah .
The clashes were triggered when Hamas security forces tried to stop protests by policemen demanding the payment of overdue salaries from the Hamas-led government .
Demonstrators set fire to the Palestinian cabinet building in Ramallah .
Members of the armed wing of the President 's Fatah faction kidnapped a Hamas minister .
In a televised speech , President Abbas called on Fatah and Hamas forces to end the conflict and return to their positions .
The Interior Ministry responded by ordering Hamas-led security forces to redeploy to positions held before the confrontation .
Askar Akayev Kyrgyzstan 's parliament has failed to gather enough lawmakers to formally accept President Askar Akayev 's resignation , technically leaving the deposed leader in power .
The letter of resignation was to have been presented to the 75-member legislature Tuesday .
Deputies also planned to watch a resignation speech videotaped by Mr. Akayev in Moscow , but the parliamentary delegation that traveled to the Russian capital failed to show up .
Officials say the parliament session has been rescheduled for Wednesday .
In a sign of how unstable Kyrgyzstan remains , a top anti-corruption officer was gunned down early Tuesday outside his house in the southern city of Osh .
A top U.S. diplomat is in Pakistan for talks with the country 's leaders on the fight against terrorism and the situation in neighboring Afghanistan .
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for South Asia Richard Boucher arrived in the Pakistani capital , Islamabad , Wednesday for two days of meetings .
Boucher is meeting with Foreign Minister Khurshid Kasuri , President Pervez Musharraf and other key members of government .
Talks are also expected to focus on recent political developments in Pakistan .
President Musharraf is trying to maintain cooperation with Washington in the fight against terrorism while managing opposition to his government by Islamist hardliners .
The European Union has imposed more sanctions on Burma .
The new sanctions , adopted at an EU foreign ministers ' meeting in Brussels , include an embargo on the import of timber , gems and metals from Burma .
They also extend a list of Burmese leaders and their relatives subject to a travel ban and assets freeze .
"The EU foreign ministers urged Burma 's military government to enter into a "" meaningful dialogue "" that will lead to democracy ."
They also called for the lifting of all restrictions on detained opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .
Officials in Sierra Leone say at least 200 people are missing and feared drowned after a boat capsized off the coast of the west African nation .
Eight people have been confirmed dead and 37 have been rescued as officials continue to search for survivors .
Transportation authorities have been unable to determine the exact number of passengers .
Police said the boat , carrying a large number of schoolchildren , turned over late Wednesday in a heavy storm south of the capital , Freetown .
Authorities have not said what caused the accident .
However , maritime accidents are not uncommon in Sierra Leone where boats are often overloaded and safety standards are frequently lacking or ignored .
Doctors treating Ukrainian opposition leader Viktor Yushchenko have confirmed he was poisoned with TCDD , the most harmful type of dioxin .
TCDD was a key contaminant in Agent Orange , the substance that caused numerous health problems during the Vietnam War .
The doctors in Vienna say the level was about 6,000 times higher than normal .
In an interview Thursday with the Associated Press , Mr. Yushchenko said he was poisoned at a September dinner with top Ukrainian security officials .
This came as Mr. Yushchenko and Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych were in the midst of a heated presidential election campaign .
The two face off in a December 26 election .
The Associated Press also interviewed Mr. Yanukovych , who said he does not want to be associated with authorities Mr. Yushchenko say poisoned him .
Mr. Yanukovych was declared winner of a flawed November election , but the Supreme Court overturned the results and ordered this month 's re-run .
Tradition has it that the Vatican Post Office issues a special stamp upon the death of a pope .
"Officials in Vatican City Saturday said the so-called "" vacant see "" stamp will carry an image only of two crossed keys ."
The traditional image on Vatican stamps issued while a pope is alive contains both the keys as well as other papal symbols .
"These special stamps are only valid during the so-called "" interregnum , "" or between the time of a pope 's death and when a new one is elected by a conclave of cardinals ."
The last time the Vatican issued a vacant see stamp was in 1978 , when Pope John Paul I died .
The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency says al-Qaida is fully capable of building and detonating a radioactive dirty bomb in the United States and other Western nations .
In its annual report on proliferation threats released to lawmakers Tuesday , the CIA said al-Qaida 's stated desire to carry out attacks using chemical , biological or nuclear materials is one of the agency 's highest concerns .
The CIA said any attack would probably be on a small scale , using improvised delivery devices and easily obtainable toxins or radiological substances .
It warned that multiple , simultaneous attacks could kill hundreds of people and cause widespread panic .
The report also says the CIA remains convinced Iran is pursuing a clandestine nuclear weapons program , and North Korea may have a nuclear-capable missile able to reach the United States .
Egyptian officials say they have postponed reconciliation talks scheduled next week with Palestinian factions .
Authorities did not say when the Egyptian-sponsored talks would be held .
Earlier Saturday , Hamas officials said they plan to boycott the talks with rival Fatah .
Officials said Palestinian President and Fatah leader Mahmoud Abbas continues to crack down on Hamas in the Fatah-controlled West Bank .
Late last month , Mr. Abbas deployed hundreds of security officers to the West Bank city of Hebron .
Egypt invited Hamas and Fatah , along with smaller Palestinian factions , to a meeting in Cairo on November ninth to settle the conflict between the two larger groups .
The factions have been divided since Hamas militants drove Fatah fighters out of Gaza in June 2007 and seized control of the territory .
Hong Kong says it had a record-setting 268 new cases of HIV infection in 2004 .
Dr. S. S. Lee , a consultant for the territory 's Health Department , says increased traffic between Hong Kong and China is partly to blame for the rise in HIV cases .
China is one of many east Asian nations with a growing AIDS crisis .
Dr. Lee says the majority of the new HIV cases came from sexual transmission , while a smaller number contracted the virus from contaminated needles .
However , the number of AIDS cases dropped from 56 in 2003 to 49 last year .
Dr. Lee says an estimated 3,000 people in Hong Kong either have HIV or AIDS .
Twelve mine clearing workers are missing in eastern Afghanistan .
Authorities said Thursday that the workers of a local demining company disappeared while traveling through Paktia province .
The Reuters news agency quotes a Paktia official as saying insurgents abducted the 12 deminers .
In southern Afghanistan , NATO said two soldiers were killed and several others wounded by two separate bomb attacks Thursday .
It gave no other details .
On Wednesday , Afghan and U.S.-led coalition troops killed more than 40 Taleban fighters during a 12-hour battle in southern Kandahar province .
The military says nearly 200 Taleban insurgents have been killed in fighting in the area in the past two weeks .
The Taleban were ousted from power in Afghanistan by a U.S.-led offensive in late 2001 .
However , Taleban fighters have regrouped in recent months to mount an increasingly bloody insurgency aimed at the U.S.-backed government in Kabul .
American figure skater Michelle Kwan has pulled out of the Olympic Winter Games in Turin , Italy , dashing the superstar 's hopes to win the one prize that has eluded her over a long and prestigious career - an Olympic gold medal .
Kwan withdrew from the games early Sunday due to a hip muscle injury and recurring groin strain .
Kwan says taking herself off the team is the most difficult decision she has ever had to make .
The 25-year-old California native received a bye onto the Olympic team after missing the U.S. championships because of the groin injury .
Kwan has five world championships , nine U.S. titles , and silver and bronze Olympic medals .
Medals will be awarded in eight Olympic events Sunday , including the highly anticipated men 's Alpine skiing downhill race .
Norway leads the overall medal count with four , followed by Germany with two .
Israeli security officials say they re-arrested nuclear-whistle blower Mordechai Vanunu early Thursday .
Officials say Vanunu is suspected of giving unauthorized information to foreigners .
He was set free in April , after serving 18 years in prison for divulging classified information about Israel 's nuclear program to the London Sunday Times .
Under conditions of his release , Vanunu is still barred from leaving the country or discussing Israel 's nuclear program .
His contacts with foreigners also are restricted .
Egyptian officials say more than 40 people have died in a series of bomb attacks in a Red Sea resort area .
Police say the seven blasts early Saturday included as many as four car bombs , and injured more than 100 people .
Witnesses say one hotel , Ghazala Gardens , in the town of Sharm el-Sheik was heavily damaged by the attacks , which also targeted a tourist bazaar in the Naama Bay area .
Officials say one blast killed 17 people gathered at an outdoor cafe .
The attacks come as hotels are packed with tourists , including many foreigners , during the busy summer vacation season .
Last October , 34 people died in explosions in nearby resort areas .
Egyptian officials blamed the attacks on violence related to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict .
Terrorist mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi has apparently surfaced in an audiotape on the Internet , seeking to further divide Iraq 's Sunnis and Shi'ites 10 days before national elections .
The 75-minute-long statement took aim at the country 's ascendant Shi'ites , who are expected to win a majority of seats in the transitional assembly .
In the tape , Zarqawi accuses their highest religious authority , Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani , of approving November 's U.S.-led invasion to crush insurgents hiding in the Sunni stronghold of Fallujah .
He also accuses Shi'ites of killing innocents in Fallujah , and claims they fought alongside 800 Israeli soldiers as well as Jordanian troops .
The authenticity of the tape has not been established .
Many of Fallujah 's residents fled ahead of November 's offensive .
The U.S. military said Thursday that the city is now completely reopened and a little more than half of its residents have returned .
Ceremonies in the U.S. have marked the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks with moments of silence and the reading of victims ' names .
Bells tolled and bagpipes played in New York at the moment eight years ago when the first of two hijacked airliners slammed into the World Trade Center .
President Barack Obama took part in a ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House , while Vice President Joe Biden spoke at the service in New York .
Nearly 3,000 people died on September 11 , 2001 , in a coordinated al-Qaeda attack involving four hijacked planes .
One of them crashed into the Pentagon , where Mr. Obama plans to attend a wreathlaying on Friday .
Services are also planned in Shanksville , Pennsylvania , the crash site of United Airlines Flight 93 .
That aircraft went down after passengers fought hijackers and presumably stopped the plane from hitting its intended target .
Witnesses in Nepal say police have opened fire on a protest rally against King Gyanendra in the west of the country , wounding at least one person .
They say the incident took place Thursday in the town of Pokhara , as police tried to disperse the demonstrators .
The protest coincided with a nationwide strike called by opposition parties to protest the king 's plan for municipal elections .
The streets of the capital , Kathmandu , were deserted , and schools and businesses were closed around the country .
Riot police were patrolling to prevent the violence that has accompanied previous strikes .
The strike is aimed at stopping candidates from registering for February 8 elections , a process that began today .
Only a few candidates filed their nominations in Kathmandu in the first few hours .
The alliance of seven opposition groups says it will boycott the vote , because it would legitimize the king 's absolute rule .
A Russian newspaper says Russia is planning to sell up to nine submarines to Venezuela .
The Kommersant reports Thursday that Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is expected to sign the deal during a trip to Moscow , which starts June 29 .
The contract would include five older , 636-type diesel submarines and the future delivery of four state-of-the-art 677 Amur submarines .
Russia has also supplied similar submarines to China .
In recent years , Venezuela has become a major buyer of Russian arms , a development that has prompted expressions of concern by the United States .
Previous Russian arms deals have supplied Venezuela with Kalashnikov rifles , jets , helicopters , and other weaponry .
Venezuela 's president is a fierce critic of the Bush administration and says it supported the coup against him in April 2002 .
U.S. officials have denied the charge .
U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney has arrived in Saudi Arabia for talks on issues including how to stop the sectarian violence in Iraq .
Cheney is expected to ask Saudi officials to use their influence with Iraq 's Sunni Arab minority to help stabilize the country .
U.S. officials say the Saudi government has been a strong ally in the region .
The vice president 's talks with King Abdullah also will include the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the situation in Lebanon .
On Wednesday , President Bush is to open talks about Iraqi security with Iraq 's Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in Jordan .
The Bush administration is reviewing its strategy in Iraq in hopes of stopping the rise in sectarian violence and continued attacks on coalition forces .
A new law comes into effect in Brazil Sunday , allowing the country 's air force to shoot down planes suspected of smuggling drugs .
Drug traffickers frequently fly over Brazil while smuggling drugs from neighboring Colombia .
Bogota also has a similar shoot-down policy .
Brazilian officials say air force pilots must follow an eight-step procedure before shooting at a suspected drug plane .
Critics say that despite those steps , the chance of human error remains and innocent people could be killed .
Such a mistake occurred in Peru in 2001 , and an American missionary and her child were killed .
Israel has formally turned over the West Bank city of Jericho to Palestinian forces .
Israeli troops took down their national flag and dismantled a key checkpoint as Palestinian forces took up positions inside the city .
Top commanders from both sides resolved a last-minute hitch over paperwork and signed an agreement to formalize the transfer .
Israel still controls two checkpoints outside Jericho , but troops have relaxed security procedures to ease travel to the city .
Jericho is the first of five towns ( with Tulkarem , Qalqiliya , Ramallah , Bethlehem ) that Israel plans to turn over to Palestinian control .
Meanwhile , Israeli television reported that Jewish extremists plan to take over a disputed holy site in Jerusalem to try to sabotage Israel 's planned withdrawal from Gaza .
Also Wednesday in Cairo , Egyptian and Palestinian officials and Palestinian militant leaders are discussing a proposed one-year halt to Palestinian attacks on Israeli targets .
Afghan officials say three police officers have been killed in two different suicide bombings Tuesday .
Authorities say one officer was killed when a bomber rammed a police car in the southern province of Paktika , near the border with Pakistan .
They say the other bombing took place in the relatively quiet province of Kunduz , when a bomber detonated his car while being followed by police .
That blast killed two policemen .
Separately , government officials said unidentified gunmen kidnapped two workers from the ministry of rural development .
That abduction occurred Monday in the western province of Nimroz .
A Seoul-based human rights group says North Korea has executed 70 defectors who were captured in China and repatriated .
The private Commission to Help North Korean Refugees cited informants in the North as saying the executions were carried out to set an example for others thinking about fleeing .
The group said in a statement Friday that eight or nine defectors were executed last month in public to discourage other people from fleeing to China .
South Korean officials have not confirmed the report .
China is North Korea 's only important ally and by treaty returns North Koreans , who Beijing regards as illegal immigrants and not as refugees .
More than 1,00,000 North Koreans are believed to be hiding in China .
NATO says its forces carried out a precision airstrike Saturday targeting a Taleban militant in southern Afghanistan .
In a statement , NATO said the mission targeted the vehicle of a suspected terrorist who is allegedly linked to the transport of anti-aircraft weapons .
Details about casualties related to the strike in Helmand province were not released .
The strike took place during the first week of NATO 's offensive against Taleban militants in southern Afghanistan .
Also Saturday , authorities in eastern Afghanistan say four Afghan security officers were killed in a roadside bomb blast .
Officials say the attack occurred in Khost province , near the Pakistani border .
In southern Afghanistan Friday , a remote-controlled bomb ripped through the vehicle of pro-government tribal elder Mullah Naqib .
Naqib and some of his family members and guards were wounded in the blast and at least two others were killed .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in the Hague for the EuropeanUnion-Russian Summit Thursday where the disputed Ukrainian presidential election is expected to top the agenda .
"EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso has said the 25-member bloc will make it clear to the Russian President that the EU is not "" satisfied "" with Ukraine 's disputed election ."
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych -- who was backed by Mr. Putin -- has been declared the winner of Sunday 's voting , but the EU is rejecting the results because of allegations of widespread voting fraud .
On other issues , EU leaders say they will call on Russia to sign and ratify border agreements with Estonia and Latvia , and urge it to seek a political settlement in war-torn Chechnya .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has fired three top security officials after militants broke the ceasefire he reached with Israel and fired mortars at Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip .
Mr. Abbas dismissed the men , including security chief Abdel Razek Majaidie , hours after Hamas militants fired the mortars .
No one was wounded in the shelling , which Hamas said was a response to Israeli gunfire that killed a Palestinian man Wednesday in Gaza .
Despite the violence , Israeli and Palestinian officials met late Thursday to discuss security issues .
Meanwhile , a deadly shootout was also reported at a Palestinian jail in Gaza City .
Palestinian sources say at least three people described as Israeli collaborators were killed when dozens of masked gunmen stormed a jailhouse and set free several prisoners .
Germany , France and Lithuania are the latest European countries to congratulate Viktor Yushchenko on his victory in the Ukrainian presidential election .
In a letter to Mr. Yushchenko Tuesday , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder expressed optimism that Ukraine will continue what he called its transition toward the rule of law and a market economy .
Lithuanian President Viktor Adamkus congratulated Mr. Yushchenko in a telephone conversation .
In Paris , the foreign ministry said France and its European Union partners are determined to support democracy and modernization in Ukraine .
Meanwhile , Russia has questioned the objectivity of monitors for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe .
That organization characterized last month 's presidential election re-run as flawed , while saying that Sunday 's poll vastly improved upon the last vote .
Russia backed Mr. Yushchenko 's opponent .
U.S. weather forecasters say Tropical Storm Ernesto has formed over the Caribbean and is heading toward Jamaica and the Cayman Islands .
The National Hurricane Center thinks the storm could strengthen in coming days and is on track to enter the Gulf of Mexico next week .
The center is urging Jamaica and the Cayman Islands to monitor the threats posed by Ernesto , the fifth named storm of the season .
Earlier Friday , Tropical Storm Debby weakened over the Atlantic .
The National Hurricane Center in Miami says Debby is about 2,200 kilometers northwest of the Cape Verde Islands , with winds near 65 kilometers per hour .
It says no significant change in strength is expected over the next day .
Ethiopian security forces say they have foiled what they describe as a terrorist plot by a group linked to the country 's main opposition party .
A statement released through state media says authorities arrested a group that was planning attacks in the capital , Addis Ababa .
The statement says the group planned to target government officials and institutions .
Ethiopian authorities say they also seized bombs , explosives and small arms related to the plot .
The statement did not say how many people were arrested or explain how the alleged group is linked to the opposition Coalition for Unity and Democracy .
Leaders of the party were not available for comment .
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi has repeatedly accused the opposition of conspiring to incite violence and seeking to overthrow him .
The government has charged at least 129 opposition leaders , journalists and others with treason and planning to commit genocide .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has ordered disciplinary action against senior U.N. officials who worked on the oil-for-food program in Iraq .
"Mr. Annan said in a statement Thursday a report about alleged corruption in the U.N. program has turned up "" extremely troubling evidence of wrongdoing , "" and he pledged that no one involved would be shielded from prosecution ."
The independent report , released Thursday , concluded that the head of the oil-for-food program , Benon Sevan , seriously undermined the integrity of the United Nations by his conduct .
U.N. disciplinary proceedings have begun against Mr. Sevan and another senior official , Joseph Stephanides .
Both Mr. Sevan and Mr. Stephanides are Cypriot nationals .
Critics say billions of dollars were siphoned away from the oil-for-food program , which was devised after the first Gulf War in an attempt to help Iraq 's impoverished civilian population .
Rebels and government forces in Ivory Coast began withdrawing heavy weapons from the front line Thursday , complying with a new peace deal to end tensions in the divided nation .
The pullback , expected to last four days , includes all guns larger than 20 millimeters and short-range weaponry equal to or larger than 60 millimeters , including mortars .
Anti-tank weapons will remain in place .
One rebel fighter told VOA he was happy to see the repeatedly postponed disarmament process begin , adding that he hopes to become a police officer once the two-year-old conflict is finally over .
Several peace deals have failed to take hold in Ivory Coast .
Rebels still hold huge swaths of territory in northern and western Ivory Coast , with the government firmly in control of the south .
News reports from Uzbekistan say sporadic gunfire has continued in areas along the Kyrgyz border , following Friday 's military crackdown against protesters in the city of Andijan .
The Associated Press quoted residents as saying several soldiers and civilians were killed when clashes erupted Sunday in two border villages , Teshiktosh and Karasu .
Earlier reports said as many as 500 people were killed when security forces fired into a crowd of demonstrators in Andijan on Friday .
But Uzbek President Islam Karimov said the death toll was much lower .
He blamed the bloodshed on Islamic radicals trying to overthrow the government .
Several countries , including the United States , have called for restraint .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw called the Andijan crackdown a clear abuse of human rights .
Pope John Paul II has included prayers for the victims of the Asian tsunami in his New Year 's Day Mass marking the Roman Catholic Church 's annual World Day of Peace .
Thousands of pilgrims attended the Pope 's outdoor Mass Saturday at the Vatican .
John Paul II also led a Mass for the tsunami victims in his private chapel overnight .
In his peace message , the pontiff called for greater cooperation among the world 's religions , and for promotion of peace through dialogue , justice and forgiveness .
"He urged the world 's one billion Roman Catholics to , "" win the fight over evil with the armies of love . """
The European Union opened membership talks with Turkey early Tuesday , after settling last-minute objections by Austria .
EU foreign ministers ended 30 hours of heated emergency meetings late Monday in Luxembourg with Austrian officials withdrawing Vienna 's demand that the EU retain the option of offering Turkey a limited partnership .
Turkey had rejected the option .
Austria 's cooperation paved the way for all 25 EU member-states to agree on a negotiating framework for the membership process , which is expected to take about 10 years .
A brief ceremony to officially open the talks took place shortly after midnight Tuesday in Luxembourg .
Talks had been scheduled to open Monday .
If accepted , Turkey would be the first country with a majority Muslim population to join the European Union .
It has been an associate member of the bloc since 1963 .
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has called for both his supporters and opponents to work with him as he embarks on his fifth presidential term .
He took the oath of office Tuesday before parliament and several foreign dignitaries , including Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi .
In a nationally televised speech , the 77-year-old leader pledged to continue a nascent program of political and economic reforms , and to improve the living standard of Egypt 's majority poor during his term , which runs through 2011 .
"He also promised November 's legislative elections will be "" free and fair , "" after criticisms that September 's first multi-candidate presidential race was rife with voting irregularities ."
Mr. Mubarak beat nine challengers , winning more than 88 percent of the vote .
Japan says it wants safety guarantees for its players and fans when its national soccer ( football ) team travels to North Korea for a World Cup qualifying match in June .
Japan 's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroyuki Hosoda says it is a necessary precondition for any international match that players can play safely and spectators can be protected .
Japanese concerns were raised by scenes of mob violence at a match in Pyongyang between Iran and North Korea on Wednesday .
The game was televised and cameras showed the North Korean spectators throwing bottles , cans and seats at players and officials on the field .
Riot police had to clear a path for the victorious Iranian players to reach their team bus .
The violence at the game was a rare occurrence in the tightly controlled North Korean state .
A published report says the United States has been flying drones over Iran for almost a year , looking for evidence of nuclear weapons programs and detect weaknesses in air defenses .
In Sunday 's editions , The Washington Post quotes three U.S. officials as saying the U.S. military has been launching the unmanned surveillance flights from Iraq .
There has been no U.S. comment on the report .
An Iranian spokesman Sunday again warned the United States not to attack its nuclear facilities .
He also rejected a European proposal aimed at restricting Tehran 's development of nuclear fuel .
Iran has said in the past it would stop plans to build a heavy water nuclear reactor , which can be used to make nuclear weapons-grade material as well as for nuclear energy .
But Sunday in Tehran , a foreign ministry spokesman said Iran will go forward with the heavy water reactor and will not replace it under any circumstances .
North Korea says its Catholic community has organized religious services in memory of Pope John Paul .
The official news agency , KCNA , on Tuesday quotes Samuel Jang Jae On , described as head of the country 's Catholic association , as saying North Korean Catholics are deeply saddened by the pontiff 's passing .
The agency says Mr. Jang sent the Vatican a message of condolence .
North Korea is widely described as one of the world 's most repressive political regimes .
It is not clear how many Catholics live in the Communist nation and to what extent they can practice their religion .
Thousands of protesters have demonstrated outside a Philippine army camp , where U.S. soldiers and Philippine troops have begun joint military exercises .
Demonstrators in the town of Carmen on the southern island of Mindanao chanted anti-U.S. slogans Tuesday and demanded that American troops leave the area .
U.S. soldiers will also take part in the Philippines ' annual war games , to be held next month on Jolo island in the southern Philippines .
Jolo is where the al-Qaida-linked militant group Abu Sayyaf has carried out bombings , kidnappings and killings of foreigners in recent years .
Philippine law prohibits American troops from joining any combat operations with Philippine forces .
Security for the war games will be tight , to protect the soldiers from attacks by rebels .
In addition to military training , troops will carry out humanitarian missions to try to boost support among Jolo 's residents .
The U.N. World Food Program is giving emergency assistance to the Cuban government .
The WFP announced Tuesday that it will help feed about two million people at a cost of nearly $ 6 million .
The aid package is intended to help Cuba recover from last month 's devastation from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike .
During the next six months , WFP will provide food rations , including rice , beans , vegetable oil , canned fish and more .
The WFP will also supply temporary food storage warehouses and liquid gas stoves to people who lost their cooking facilities in the storms .
Sweden 's Nobel Foundation begins announcing winners of the annual Nobel Prize awards on Monday in Oslo , Norway .
Prizes for medicine , physics , chemistry and literature will be announced before the prestigious Peace Prize is revealed Friday .
A separate prize for economics will be announced October 10 .
It was instituted in 1968 by the Bank of Sweden in memory of the founder of the Nobel Prize , Swedish philanthropist Alfred Nobel .
Winners receive their awards , including a check worth $ 1.3 million , at a banquet on December 10 .
That is the anniversary of Mr. Nobel 's death in 1896 .
According to his will , a five-member committee elected by the Norwegian parliament chooses the Peace Prize laureate , while Swedish scientific and literary groups choose the other winners .
The first Nobel Prizes were given in 1901 .
Insurgents in Iraq fired a barrage of mortar rounds into central Baghdad
Thursday , killing at least one person and wounding several others .
Police say some of the mortars landed in the Green Zone -- the heavily fortified enclave that houses Iraqi government offices and several foreign embassies .
Last week , a mortar attack on the Green Zone killed four employees of a British security company .
Meanwhile , the U.S. military is planning to temporarily increase the number of American troops in Iraq to bolster security ahead of Iraq 's January election .
The Defense Department said Wednesday the size of U.S. forces in Iraq will increase to 1,50,000 from its current level of 1,38,000 .
Iraq 's interim government has rejected calls from some Sunni parties to postpone the vote because of security concerns .
Brazilian lawmakers have approved legislation that will give the government more control over developing offshore oil fields .
The lower house of the Brazilian congress passed the bill Wednesday , sending it to outgoing President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva for his signature .
The measure allows the state-owned oil company , known as Petrobras , to be the sole operator of unexplored offshore oil fields , as well as a 30 percent stake in any joint ventures .
Brazil has discovered potentially large oil reserves off the country 's southeastern coast , some of them thousands of meters below the sea floor .
Some estimates say the fields may contain more than 50 billion barrels of oil .
Brazilian lawmakers also approved a provision that will allow non-oil producing states to receive more oil revenues .
A new U.S. opinion survey shows eight out of 10 Americans believe the country is going in the wrong direction .
The Washington Post-ABC News poll also indicates Democrats hold a 21 percentage point advantage over Republicans as the party better equipped to handle the country 's problems .
In a hypothetical general election match-up , Democratic Party candidate Senator Barack Obama leads presumed Republican nominee John McCain by 51-to-44 percent .
As the Democratic Party nears the end of its presidential primaries , the national poll shows Obama has a 12-point advantage over Senator Hillary Clinton as the party 's choice for its nomination .
The poll says Americans cite the economy and employment as their top voting issue , followed by the Iraq war , healthcare and fuel prices .
The poll of more than 1,100 adults , conducted from May 8 - 11 , has a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points .
Cuban President Raul Castro is visiting Venezuela on his first international trip as leader of the communist nation .
Venezuela 's socialist president , Hugo Chavez , welcomed Mr. Castro Saturday at the Caracas airport .
This is President Castro 's first official foreign trip since February , when the 77-year-old took charge from his ailing older brother , Fidel Castro .
The two leaders will visit the tomb of South American independence icon Simon Bolivar today and later hold talks on a variety of issues .
Venezuela and Cuba have increased cooperation on energy and oil production .
Venezuela is a critical trade partner for the Caribbean island nation , which imports nearly 1,00,000 barrels of oil per day from Venezuela .
Today 's visit comes ahead of a summit in Brazil next week , where Latin American and Caribbean leaders will gather for talks .
The nuclear cooperation pact between India and the United States has sparked a mixed reaction in Washington and abroad .
International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Mohamed ElBaradei praised the agreement , saying it would bring India closer as an important partner in the non-proliferation group of countries .
But some U.S. lawmakers criticized the deal , saying the agreement that could give India access to U.S. civilian nuclear technology would undermine the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
India has not signed the treaty , which restricts the sharing of some nuclear technology with non-member nations , and drew widespread international criticism for conducting nuclear weapons tests as recently as 1998 .
Full details of the nuclear cooperation pact have not been released , but the agreement must still be approved by Congress before taking effect .
President Bush acknowledged Thursday that hard work still needs to be done to gain the necessary approval in Congress .
A Sudanese analyst says the late rebel leader John Garang was a symbol of the struggle for greater federalism in the country .
Lecturer John Gai Yoh of the University of South Africa ( UNISA ) in Pretoria credits the leader of the Sudanese Liberation Movement with creating a campaign that included allies beyond his base in the south .
Mr. Yoh notes that his vision materialized with the comprehensive peace agreement signed last January between the former SPLA rebels and the government in Khartoum .
Analyst John Gai Yoh predicts that the SPLA will continue to democratize : it has created a new SPLA parliament for the south and has named a new five-man military panel to lead the movement .
The United Nations has given its annual Franklin Delano Roosevelt International Disability Award to Poland , recognizing the country 's efforts to integrate the disabled into Polish society .
President Lech Kaczynski accepted the award at a ceremony Monday at U.N. headquarters in New York .
He said his country 's struggle for freedom includes a commitment to the rights of those with disabilities .
He said their rights are guaranteed by the Polish constitution .
Mr. Kaczynski promised that Poland will adopt a new U.N. convention to protect the disabled .
The award is named for U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt , whose legs were paralyzed from polio .
Mr. Roosevelt was president from 1933 until 1945 .
An Ethiopian government spokesman denies that a reported rebel attack said to have killed 140 soldiers ever took place .
The spokesman , Zemedkun Tekle , issued the denial Sunday after media reports said the Ogaden National Liberation Front had claimed to have carried out the deadly attack Saturday in southeastern Ethiopia near Wardheer .
A purported statement from the group received by some news organizations said about a thousand rebels took part in the attack and seized ammunition along with military hardware .
The government spokesman says there was no attack , and that the rebel group is not in a position to carry out such an attack .
Rebels have been fighting for more autonomy for ethnic Somalis in the eastern region of Ogaden bordering Somalia .
Kuwaiti television reports the kidnappers in Iraq of American journalist Jill Carroll are threatening to kill her if their demands are not met by February 26 .
Al-Rai television Friday quoted sources close to the kidnappers as saying the abductors have set the deadline .
The militants holding Carroll previously had demanded that all Iraqi women prisoners be freed .
Earlier Friday , at least eight people died and more than 20 were wounded in a Baghdad car bombing near a Sunni Muslim mosque .
Officials in Iraq also certified results of the December 15 elections , confirming the near majority of parliament seats won by Shi'ite religious parties .
According to the results , the dominant Shi'ite coalition , the United Iraqi Alliance , won 128 seats in the 275-member parliament .
Palestinian security officials say masked Palestinian police briefly stormed a government building in the Gaza Strip in anger over not receiving their salaries from the Hamas-led government .
Security officials say about 50 police officers sealed off the main road Saturday in the central Gaza town of Khan Younis .
They say the masked police surrounded a municipal government building , taking positions on the roof and firing in the air .
The protest is seen as a sign of discontent with the new Hamas-led government , which took office late last month .
The cash-strapped Palestinian Authority has not been able to pay salaries to some 1,40,000 government employees since March .
Western nations have cut off aid to the Palestinian government , demanding that Hamas renounce violence and recognize Israel .
"The White House said President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that are n't produced in "" significant quantities "" in the U.S. , the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions ."
The action came in response to a petition filed by Timex Inc. for changes in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations .
Previously , watch imports were denied such duty-free treatment .
Timex had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches , covered by 58 different U.S. tariff classifications .
"The White House said Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories , but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "" because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands . """
Timex is a major U.S. producer and seller of watches , including low-priced battery-operated watches assembled in the Philippines and other developing nations covered by the U.S. tariff preferences .
U.S. trade officials said the Philippines and Thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president 's action .
Imports of the types of watches that now will be eligible for duty-free treatment totaled about $ 37.3 million in 1988 , a relatively small share of the $ 1.5 billion in U.S. watch imports that year , according to an aide to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills .
Although known to Arab and Malay sailors as early as the 10th century , Mauritius was first explored by the Portuguese in the 16th century and subsequently settled by the Dutch - who named it in honor of Prince Maurits van NASSAU - in the 17th century .
The French assumed control in 1715 , developing the island into an important naval base overseeing Indian Ocean trade , and establishing a plantation economy of sugar cane .
The British captured the island in 1810 , during the Napoleonic Wars .
Mauritius remained a strategically important British naval base , and later an air station , playing an important role during World War II for anti-submarine and convoy operations , as well as the collection of signals intelligence .
Independence from the UK was attained in 1968 .
A stable democracy with regular free elections and a positive human rights record , the country has attracted considerable foreign investment and has earned one of Africa 's highest per capita incomes .
Recent poor weather , declining sugar prices , and declining textile and apparel production , have slowed economic growth , leading to some protests over standards of living in the Creole community .
Morocco 's market economy benefits from the country 's relatively low labor costs and proximity to Europe , which aid key areas of the economy such as agriculture , light manufacturing , tourism , and remittances .
Morocco is also the world 's largest exporter of phosphate , which has long provided a source of export earnings and economic stability .
Economic policies pursued since 2003 by King MOHAMMED VI have brought macroeconomic stability to the country with generally low inflation , improved financial performance , and steady progress in developing the service and industrial sectors .
In 2006 , Morocco entered a Free Trade Agreement ( FTA ) with the US , and in 2008 entered into an advanced status in its 2000 Association Agreement with the EU .
However , poverty , illiteracy , and unemployment rates remain high .
In response to these challenges , King MOHAMMED in 2005 launched a National Initiative for Human Development , a $ 2 billion program aimed at alleviating poverty and underdevelopment by expanding electricity to rural areas and replacing urban slums with public and subsidized housing , among other policies .
Morocco 's trade and budget deficits widened in 2010 , and reducing government spending and adapting to sluggish economic growth in Europe will be challenges in 2011 .
Morocco 's long-term challenges include improving education and job prospects for young Moroccans , closing the disparity in wealth between the rich and the poor , confronting corruption , and expanding and diversifying exports beyond phosphates and low-value-added products .
Albania , a formerly closed , centrally-planned state , is making the difficult transition to a more modern open-market economy .
Macroeconomic growth averaged around 6 % between 2004 - 8 , but declined to about 3 % in 2009 - 10 .
Inflation is low and stable .
The government has taken measures to curb violent crime , and recently adopted a fiscal reform package aimed at reducing the large gray economy and attracting foreign investment .
Remittances , a significant catalyst for economic growth have declined from Dec-15 % of GDP to 9 % of GDP in 2009 , mostly from Albanians residing in Greece and Italy ; this helps offset the towering trade deficit .
The agricultural sector , which accounts for almost half of employment but only about one-fifth of GDP , is limited primarily to small family operations and subsistence farming because of lack of modern equipment , unclear property rights , and the prevalence of small , inefficient plots of land .
Energy shortages because of a reliance on hydropower , and antiquated and inadequate infrastructure contribute to Albania 's poor business environment and lack of success in attracting new foreign investment needed to expand the country 's export base .
FDI is among the lowest in the region , but the government has embarked on an ambitious program to improve the business climate through fiscal and legislative reforms .
The completion of a new thermal power plant near Vlore has helped diversify generation capacity , and plans to upgrade transmission lines between Albania and Montenegro and Kosovo would help relieve the energy shortages .
Also , with help from EU funds , the government is taking steps to improve the poor national road and rail network , a long-standing barrier to sustained economic growth .
Economic activity consists primarily of subsistence farming and fishing .
The islands have few mineral deposits worth exploiting , except for high-grade phosphate .
The potential for a tourist industry exists , but the remote location , a lack of adequate facilities , and limited air connections hinder development .
Under the original terms of the Compact of Free Association , the US provided $ 1.3 billion in grant aid during the period 1986 - 2001 ; the level of aid has been subsequently reduced .
The Amended Compact of Free Association with the US guarantees the Federated States of Micronesia ( FSM ) millions of dollars in annual aid through 2023 , and establishes a Trust Fund into which the US and the FSM make annual contributions in order to provide annual payouts to the FSM in perpetuity after 2023 .
The country 's medium-term economic outlook appears fragile due not only to the reduction in US assistance but also to the current slow growth of the private sector .
The discovery and exploitation of large oil and gas reserves have contributed to dramatic economic growth but fluctuating oil prices have produced huge swings in GDP growth in recent years .
Forestry and farming are also minor components of GDP .
Subsistence farming is the dominate form of livelihood .
Although pre-independence Equatorial Guinea counted on cocoa production for hard currency earnings , the neglect of the rural economy under successive regimes has diminished potential for agriculture-led growth ( the government has stated its intention to reinvest some oil revenue into agriculture ) .
A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF have been cut off since 1993 because of corruption and mismanagement .
The government has been widely criticized for its lack of transparency and misuse of oil revenues ; however , in 2010 , under Equatorial Guinea 's candidacy in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative , the government published oil revenue figures for the first time .
Undeveloped natural resources include gold , zinc , diamonds , columbite-tantalite , and other base metals .
Growth remained strong in 2008 , when oil production peaked , but slowed in 2009 - 10 , as the price of oil and the production level fell .
A BOSS who had gone to Canada was taunted by a Citizen of Montreal with having fled to avoid prosecution .
""" You do me a grave injustice , "" said the Boss , parting with a pair of tears ."
""" I came to Canada solely because of its political attractions ; its Government is the most corrupt in the world . """
""" Pray forgive me , "" said the Citizen of Montreal ."
They fell upon each other 's neck , and at the conclusion of that touching rite the Boss had two watches .
There are less than three months until the election , an election that will decide the next President of the United States .
The man elected will be the president of all Americans , not just the Democrats or the Republicans .
To show our solidarity as Americans , let 's all get together and show each other our support for the candidate of our choice .
It 's time that we all came together , Democrats and Republicans alike .
If you support the policies and character of President George W. Bush , please drive with your headlights on during the day .
If you support John Kerry , please drive with your headlights off at night .
A topologist is a person who does n't know the difference between a coffee cup and a doughnut .
Lawyers get a lot of unjust criticism .
I would remind you that it is not right to condemn a whole profession just because of 3,50,000 bad apples .
I was very lonely when I was a child .
I only had two imaginary friends ...
And they would only play with each other .
The Russian and European space agencies have announced a deal to build a manned spacecraft for near-earth orbits and trips to the moon .
Russian news agency reports quote a spokesman for the Russian agency Roskosmos as saying engineers want to test a 20-ton capsule by 2015 .
A first launch is planned for 2018 at a launch center in Siberia .
Under the pact , Russia will build the capsule , while European engineers build the service module and the engine block .
The new craft is to be phased in as the replacement for Russia 's Soyuz spacecraft , which has come under increased scrutiny this year , after two consecutive rough landings on return from the International Space Station .
A human-rights group in Niger says the government is to blame for cancellation of a ceremony that was to grant 7,000 slaves their freedom .
The group Timidria had planned to release the slaves in the Ates region near Niger 's western border with Mali on Saturday , but the event was called off when none of the slaves showed up .
The rights group says the government intimidated slaves to keep them from attending the ceremony - a charge the government denies .
Niger officially banned slavery in 2003 , but human-rights groups say 43,000 people are still in bondage in the West African nation .
They are among the 2,00,000 people enslaved along centuries-old Arab-African Saharan trade routes .
Generations of Africans have been born in slavery , many under the ownership of one family .
Embattled Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo has said he wants to talk with his rival , Alassane Ouattara .
Mr. Gbagbo has been isolated by the international community , including the United States , after refusing to yield the presidency although he had fewer votes than Mr. Ouattara in last month 's poll .
Both men have taken the oath of office and begun organizing competing governments .
Earlier this week , the African Union dispatched former South African president Thabo Mbeki to seek a solution , but after two days of talks , the situation was not resolved .
The Ivory Coast 's presidential election , its first in 10 years , was meant to restore stability to the West African country , which was split into rebel- and government-controlled areas during a 2002 civil war .
Officials in Afghanistan say a suicide bomber has killed four Afghan employees of a U.S.-owned private security firm and wounded one other in southern Kandahar province .
Authorities said Sunday the bomber rode a motorbike next to a vehicle owned by the company , U.S. Protection and Investigations , and detonated his explosives .
Three guards and the vehicle 's driver were killed , and another guard was wounded .
On Saturday , a suicide bomber killed seven police officers and a civilian in eastern Afghanistan 's Khost province , near the Pakistan border .
The Taleban is reported to have taken responsibility for the blast .
NATO forces in Afghanistan are preparing for another upsurge in violence this year , having already launched an operation in the south to preempt an anticipated offensive by Taleban fighters .
Turkish police have detained more than 80 people and used tear gas to prevent thousands of leftist protesters from marching to Istanbul 's Taksim square to hold a May Day rally .
Authorities declared the square off-limits to protesters , but allowed a small number of trade union leaders to lay flowers at the square to mark the day .
Officials had shut down schools in the area for the day for fear of violence .
Members of leftist groups often clash with police during May Day observances in Turkey .
In 1977 , a May Day rally at Taksim square turned violent when unidentified gunmen opened fire on a crowd of demonstrators .
Thirty-seven people were killed in that incident .
The race for Iraq 's new prime minister narrowed Tuesday , when one of two top Shi'ite parties withdrew its candidate from consideration .
Interim Finance Minister Adel Abdul-Mahdi , who had been the candidate of the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq , withdrew his name from contention .
This leaves the head of the Islamic Dawa Party , Ibrahim al-Jaafari , as the likely front-runner .
Both parties belong to the United Iraqi Alliance , which won about 48 percent of the vote for the National Assembly .
Meanwhile , Iraq 's Electoral Commission says it has received at least three complaints from political groups challenging the election results .
A final , certified vote tally is expected Wednesday .
And Turkish shipping magnate Kahraman Sadikoglu , who was abducted in southern Iraq in December , has been freed after reports said his family paid a ransom to his kidnappers .
A Council of Europe panel says Turkey has passed important legislation protecting minority rights , but has not adequately enforced the new laws .
In a report , the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance says that despite the new legislation , Turkey 's constitution and its civil , criminal and administrative laws continue to have gaps in addressing racism .
The report , issued Tuesday in Strasbourg , says Kurds and other minorities still face adversity in Turkey , particularly from ongoing violence in the southeast where Kurdish separatists have been active in recent decades .
Turkey 's move to push through legal and economic reforms is considered an essential part of its bid to join the European Union .
The Council of Europe is a 46-nation group that brings together lawmakers from democratic European countries to review major issues facing the continent .
Armenia has launched an aerial tramway line that it says is the world 's longest .
President Serzh Sarkisian attended the opening of the tramway Saturday , in the country 's southern mountains near Armenia 's border with Iran .
The 5.7-kilometer engineering feat spans the Vorotan River gorge , linking a village off the main highway to the 9th century Tatev Monastery .
The monastery is one of the country 's oldest and most prominent monasteries and is a major tourist attraction .
The head of Cuba 's parliament has offered to support Iran in its fight to develop nuclear energy within Iranian borders .
Ricardo Alarcon voiced solidarity Thursday in a meeting with the visiting speaker of Iran 's parliament , Gholam Ali Haddad Adel .
Iran resumed enrichment of uranium for nuclear fuel earlier this week , despite international pressure against the move .
Haddad Adel is on a two-day visit to Cuba after spending Wednesday in Venezuela , where he thanked the government for its support on nuclear issues .
Meanwhile , Indiana Representative Dan Burton , in an interview with Voice of America Thursday , expressed concern over the close ties between Iran and the two countries .
He said if it appears that there is coordination between terrorist states and leftist organizations in Central America , the United States will intervene .
Representative Burton said such a relationship would endanger the United States and other countries in the hemisphere .
European Union foreign ministers hold emergency talks in Luxembourg Sunday in efforts to break a deadlock on Turkey , which is scheduled to begin membership negotiations with the bloc one day later .
The ministers called the meeting after Austria insisted that EU talks with Turkey should include an alternative to giving the country full membership .
Austria says most Austrians object to full EU membership for Turkey and suggested offering Turkey privileged partnership instead .
But Turkey calls that unacceptable and says it will not take part in Monday 's talks unless it is clear that the goal is full membership .
EU diplomats are working on proposals to soften Austrian opposition .
One would be a commitment to begin membership talks with Austria 's neighbor Croatia in the near future .
EU ministers had delayed the talks because of Croatian failure to cooperate fully with The Hague war crimes tribunal .
Pakistani military authorities say they have arrested a key Taliban commander who is accused of slaughtering military personnel .
Security forces said Wednesday they captured Taliban commander Sher Mohammad Qasab in the Swat Valley .
Qasab is known for his brutality among locals in the valley .
A military spokesman said Qasab was wounded and three of his sons died during an exchange of fire before his arrest .
Pakistani forces have arrested key Taliban commanders recently in the valley , including Muslim Khan , the central spokesman for the militants .
Authorities say the arrests have weakened the Taliban and are helping security forces conduct successful raids against other militants in the area .
"The top U.S. diplomat says China should make significant economic reforms so it does not continue to be a "" problem for the international economy . """
In a New York Times newspaper interview , published Friday , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says Washington also worries about China 's military buildup , human rights practices and religious restrictions .
It is a change of tone for Ms. Rice , who generally casts Sino-American relations in a positive light .
Her comments come just a month before Chinese President Hu Jintao makes his first visit to Washington since taking office in 2003 .
He will arrive amid Washington 's complaints that China manipulates the value of its currency to make its products unfairly cheap on world markets .
Beijing recently changed the value of its currency slightly , but U.S. critics say the change is not large enough to make trade fair .
Chad 's national assembly has authorized President Idriss Deby to renew a state of emergency imposed after a rebel attack on the capital , N'Djamena , early this month .
The parliament voted Friday to extend the emergency measure for another 15 days , until March 15 .
Mr. Deby declared exceptional powers for his government on February 15 after rebels attacked the capital in an effort to oust the president .
President Deby said the measures were necessary to maintain order in the country .
The emergency decree authorizes a midnight-to-dawn curfew and allows the government to ban meetings , control the movement of people and vehicles , and censor what is published in the media .
Nepal 's parliament has unanimously approved a resolution to curtail King Gyanendra 's powers .
Details of the declaration have not yet been released , but the resolution is expected to remove the king 's command over the 90,000 member army , as well as his right to make decisions on major issues .
Those powers are to be given to parliament .
Earlier Thursday , Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala told parliament members that the proclamation represents the feelings of all people in Nepal .
Curtailing the king 's powers was a key demand during last month 's pro-democracy protests , which forced King Gyanendra to give up total control of the government and reinstate parliament .
Nepal 's interim cabinet banned rallies today near the parliament and other key government buildings in Kathmandu .
Two days ago , there were demonstrations against the delay in curbing the king 's powers .
Iraqi defense lawyers representing Saddam Hussein before a special tribunal say they have suspended all contact with the court until their safety is guaranteed .
In a statement , the lawyers cited the kidnapping and murder last week of their colleague Saadoun al-Janabi who represented one of Saddam 's co-defendants .
They said the deteriorating security situation also makes it impossible to have a fair and open trial .
They have demanded U.N. protection , as well as the hiring of 15 bodyguards for each lawyer , and an independent international investigation into their colleague 's murder .
"Saddam Hussein and seven associates entered "" not guilty "" pleas at the opening of their trial last Wednesday for the 1982 murders of 143 Shi'ite men in the town of Dujail ."
The trial was adjourned until November 28 .
Israeli police have lifted an alert in Tel Aviv , hours after warning of a possible attack .
Security officials set up barricades at entry points into the city earlier Tuesday to check for suspicious vehicles , causing heavy traffic jams .
No further details have been released .
An election official in Haiti says the country may have to postpone elections scheduled for November .
Patrick Fequiere says authorities need more time to prepare ballots , distribute voter identification cards and set up polling places .
The election council member 's comments come three days after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged Haitian officials to speed up preparations for the November 20 vote .
The nine-member council has approved about 30 presidential candidates for the first round of balloting .
The country will also hold legislative elections .
The vote will be Haiti 's first since former president Jean-Betrand Aristide fled the country during a 2004 uprising .
About 7,000 U.N. peacekeepers have been deployed to calm widespread violence in Haiti .
Israel has allowed the first commercial shipment of shoes and clothing into the Gaza Strip in almost two years .
Smaller shipments have been allowed to enter Gaza through international aid groups , but Sunday 's shipments are the first to reach private traders .
Smugglers have skirted the blockade by bringing in goods though a tunnel under the Egypt-Gaza border .
"British-based human rights group Amnesty International called for an end to the blockade in January , saying it is "" suffocating "" Gaza 's 1.4 million residents ."
An Israeli military offensive into Gaza in December 2008 to stop cross-border rocket attacks by Hamas militants killed at least 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis .
Ivorian officials say 11 people in a major cocoa-growing region have been killed in an attack believed to have been triggered by a land dispute .
Officials say the incident happened Thursday when the assailants attacked their victims in the village of Siegouekou .
A senior presidential source tells the Reuters news agency that the assailants smashed down doors with guns and knives , cut the throats of some people and fired at point blank range on others .
Clashes involving rival ethnic groups over precious cocoa land are common in the area .
Ivory Coast is the world 's leading producer of cocoa , the key ingredient in chocolate .
Oil refineries , drilling platforms and pipelines largely escaped damage from Hurricane Rita , sending prices down to about $ 64 a barrel in Monday morning trading .
The falling prices were unlike the dramatic spike that followed Hurricane Katrina , but that has not eased worries among industry analysts and politicians about the tight oil supply .
Nearly all the major refineries along the Gulf of Mexico were shut down before or during Hurricane Rita , cutting total U.S. oil production by nearly 30 percent .
With little excess refining capacity , analysts say oil prices remain vulnerable to even minor disruptions in the global supply .
The U.S. Energy Department Monday will brief President Bush on damage to Gulf oil facilities and the status of the nation 's energy industry .
Reports from Sudan say dozens of people were killed when a plane veered off a runway at Khartoum 's airport and burst into flames .
About 200 passengers were thought to be aboard the Sudan Airways plane when it landed in bad weather late Tuesday .
There are conflicting reports about the number of fatalities , but state-run television in Sudan says about 100 people died in the accident .
Emergency services rushed to the scene and by late Tuesday had brought the fire under control .
The flight originated in Damascus , Syria , and made a stopover in Amman , Jordan , before flying to Khartoum .
Sudan has a poor aviation record .
In May , a plane crashed in a remote area of southern Sudan , killing 23 people , including key members of the southern Sudanese government .
In July 2003 , a Sudan Airways plane crashed soon after takeoff near Port Sudan , killing 115 people .
Ukraine 's Deputy Prime Minister Mykola Azarov says U.S. plans to build a missile defense system in central Europe are a threat to Ukraine .
Azarov said Monday that such a system close to the Ukrainian border would be a target of attack and threaten to suck Ukraine into a conflict .
Washington says it wants to build missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic to counter a possible threat by North Korean and Iranian long-range missiles .
Russia has also called the plans a mistake and has noted that neither North Korea nor Iran have such missiles .
The Pentagon has acknowledged that Iran does not currently possess long-range missiles , but says it is important to stay one step ahead .
The African Union has extended the mandate for its Darfur peacekeeping mission until the end of the year as it waits to assemble a combined force with the United Nations .
The African Union said in a statement Friday that it hopes efforts to deploy the hybrid force will be speeded up .
Sudan agreed this month to the joint African Union - United Nations force of around 20,000 peacekeepers after months of international pressure and threats of tougher U.N. sanctions .
The African Union already has about 7,000 peacekeepers in Darfur , but they have not been able to stop the region 's violence .
Sudanese government-backed Arab militias are accused of committing atrocities in battling Darfur rebels .
Four years of fighting in Darfur has left more than 2,00,000 people dead and more than two million displaced .
A U.S. Defense Department spokesman says Uzbekistan has restricted American military flights from its soil in recent weeks .
But the spokesman refused to link the change directly to U.S. criticism of the Uzbek government 's violent crackdown on anti-government protesters last month .
He said Uzbekistan has stopped allowing U.S. nighttime flights from its air base at Karshi-Khanabad , which American forces use to support operations and supply humanitarian aid to neighboring Afghanistan .
He said the U.S. military has been working around the restrictions .
Uzbekistan opened the airfield to U.S. forces in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the United States .
Washington in recent weeks has been criticizing the Uzbek government for not allowing an international probe into its handling of last month 's uprising in the eastern city of Andijan .
Philippine officials , fearing the spread of disease , are urging people to quickly bury hundreds of victims killed in two storms this week .
The military says at least 1,000 people are dead or missing from floods and mudslides caused by the typhoons , which hit provinces in the northeast of the country .
Officials are assessing the damage from the latest and most powerful storm , Typhoon Nanmadol , which slammed into the coast Thursday packing sustained winds of 185 kilometers per hour .
Nanmadol is the fourth storm to hit the Philippines in less than two weeks .
"In a televised statement Friday President Gloria Arroyo said , "" We need one great heave to deliver the relief supplies , find the missing , rescue the isolated , feed the hungry and shelter the homeless . """
Lebanese security officials say Syria has pulled two-thousand more troops out of Lebanon 's eastern Bekaa Valley .
Officials in Beirut today Monday say the latest withdrawal brings the Syrian military presence down to about eight-thousand troops , the lowest level since they entered Lebanon nearly three decades ago .
Lebanese officials say the Syrian-Lebanese Military Commission will meet next week to set a timetable for the complete withdrawal of all remaining Syrian forces .
Also Monday , a senior Lebanese Foreign Ministry official is en route to New York to attend a U.N. Security Council meeting .
Council members are expected to call for an international investigation of last month 's assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri .
In other developments , Lebanon 's main opposition leader Walid Jumblatt says he has no current plans to press for disarmament of the militant group Hezbollah .
Cameroon says its security forces have freed six hostages kidnapped two weeks ago off the country 's coast .
Communications Minister Issa Tchiroma says the six were freed Thursday and handed over to representatives of their respective diplomatic missions on Friday following medical examinations .
Tchiroma refused to give any additional details on the operation .
Rebels from Cameroon 's Bakassi Peninsula claimed responsibility for the kidnappings .
It is not clear whether the rebels are from a group called Bakassi Freedom Fighters or a splinter group known as Africa Marine Commando .
The hostages - four Ukrainians , one Croatian and one Philippine national - were kidnapped from vessels off the coast of Cameroon on September 12 .
A preliminary medical study has indicated that an ingredient in chocolate may improve the circulation of blood in the brain and heart .
Scientists at the American Association for the Advancement of Science discussed the findings Sunday at a convention in San Francisco , California .
They said flavinols , an anti-oxidant found in cocoa beans , can increase blood flow to the brain .
But researchers caution us not to start eating chocolate for its health benefits .
They say the flavinols are removed from most chocolate because they have a bitter taste .
Scientists say larger-scale testing is needed to back up the early research .
They also say eating high-calorie foods - like chocolate - can lead to health problems .
Protesters attempt to block A9 motorway near Gleneagles , Scotland Police and protesters have clashed in Scotland , as leaders of the world 's leading industrial nations gather for the Group of Eight summit at the Gleneagles resort .
Scottish officials Wednesday said about 60 people have been arrested and eight officers injured after hooded protesters smashed windows and hurled rocks and other objects at officers in the town of Stirling .
They say demonstrators have blocked roads leading to Gleneagles , as well as access to a nearby railway station .
Meanwhile , Scottish police now say they will allow protesters to march to the edge of the G-8 summit site .
Earlier in the day , they canceled the planned demonstration following outbreaks of violence in cities surrounding the resort .
More than 10,000 police have been deployed in the area around Gleneagles .
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner has urged China to use its influence with Burma 's military government to help end the political and social turmoil in the Southeast Asian country .
Speaking with the French press agency ( AFP ) Wednesday in Thailand ahead of a visit to Beijing , Kouchner said China is pivotal to strengthening United Nations efforts to bring about reform in Burma .
He said China must push the military junta in Rangoon to open real dialogue with the democratic opposition .
China -- a major supplier of weapons to Burma -- has been criticized by some diplomats for not taking a tougher stand toward Burma 's military leaders after the September crackdown on pro-democracy protests .
Kouchner said it was largely due to Beijing 's influence that U.N. envoy Ibrahim Gambari was able to travel to Burma at the end of last month .
The U.S. military says an American soldier has been killed and two others wounded in fighting with Taleban rebels in southern Afghanistan .
Seven militants were reported captured Tuesday during the fighting in Uruzgan province , the scene of a spate of suicide bombings in recent months .
In Kabul Tuesday , Afghan authorities say police fired into a crowd of rioting prison inmates , killing one and wounding at least three others .
Officials say the gunfire erupted as hundreds of prisoners tried a mass escape after government talks with the inmates broke down .
Late Tuesday , a man claiming to be an American journalist inmate told Western journalists by cell phone that rioting Taleban inmates were threatening to kill him .
Free-lance journalist Edward Caraballo was jailed in 2004 along with two other Americans found guilty of running a private prison and torturing Afghan suspects .
Iran says it will hold talks with the United States next week on security in Iraq .
Iran 's official IRNA news agency quoted Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini Sunday as saying Tehran agreed to the talks in order to lessen the pain of the Iraqi people , support the Iraqi government and establish security and peace in Iraq .
The report said Iran received a request for the talks through the Swiss Embassy in Tehran , which often acts as an intermediary for the U.S. in the country .
A spokeswoman for U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney , who is in the region , said the United States is willing to discuss Iraq with Iranian officials .
U.S. officials have said they want to see Iran and Syria increase control over their borders , and stop supporting militias and insurgents in Iraq .
The Iranian spokesman said the time and date of the talks would be made public this week .
Israel and Western nations are expressing concern over Hamas ' apparent victory in Palestinian parliamentary elections and warning they will not deal with the militant group unless it abandons violence .
Israel 's acting prime minister , Ehud Olmert , is discussing the development with senior cabinet officials .
He has said Israel will not work with a Hamas-led government .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says any group that participates in a democratic process should disarm .
Britain also called on Hamas to reject violence and acknowledge Israel 's right to exist .
Other European countries , including France , have expressed concern over Hamas ' apparent election victory .
And a spokesman for Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas says U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called to stress that the Bush administration will continue to support Mr. Abbas and his policies .
Amnesty International says sexual violence against women in Haiti is increasing one year after a deadly earthquake forced hundreds of thousands of people into makeshift shelters with little or no security .
Amnesty said in a report Thursday the offenses are primarily committed by armed men roaming tent camps at night .
The rights group says more than 250 rapes occurred in camps in the first 150 days after last January 's earthquake .
Amnesty is urging the newly elected government to include the topic of sexual violence in its plan to address the humanitarian crisis .
The group says women should have input in developing an action plan .
The rights group says immediate assistance should include security in the camps and help for police investigating cases .
The U.S. State Department has informed its diplomats that some will be required to serve in Iraq because of a lack of volunteers willing to work there .
The department sent a cable Friday to all diplomats , saying that 200 to 300 people will be notified Monday that they are prime candidates for postings in Iraq .
Harry Thomas , the director-general of the U.S. Foreign Service , said those notified would have 10 days to accept or reject the position .
Thomas said those who refuse face the possibility of dismissal .
He said diplomats sent to Iraq will receive extra pay and vacation time .
There are precedents for the directed assignments .
In 1969 , an entire class of diplomats was sent to Vietnam .
During the 1970s and 1980s , some were required to work at embassies in Africa .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has expressed hope to leaders at the Non-Aligned Movement ( NAM ) summit that talks with his Indian counterpart could ease Kashmir border tensions .
General Musharraf and Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh are expected to meet Saturday on the sidelines of the summit in Havana , Cuba .
Unlike Pakistan 's president , Mr. Singh did not speak directly about the Kashmir issue during his speech at the summit Friday .
However , he urged N.A.M. leaders to renew their group 's efforts against terrorism .
Both India and Pakistan claim ownership of Kashmir .
The countries agreed on a ceasefire in 2003 .
Kashmir is suffering from a 17-year insurgency that has killed more than 45,000 people .
A number of rebel groups are fighting for independence from India or a merger with Muslim-majority Pakistan .
South Africa 's government says it will move away from coal and promote use of wind and nuclear energy in an effort to fight global warming .
Environment Minister Marthinus van Schalkwyk told a news conference Monday that options being considered include mandatory energy efficiency targets and a possible tax on carbon dioxide emissions .
South Africa generates most of its electricity using coal , a major source of the so-called greenhouse gases blamed for climate change .
Van Schalkwyk said no new coal-fired power stations would be approved unless they use technology that captures and stores carbon emissions .
He said if action is taken now , South Africa 's greenhouse gas emissions should stabilize by 2025 and then begin to decline .
"He said the Cabinet 's decisions show the government and the country are committed to a "" low carbon economy . """
Opposition leaders in Pakistan say police have detained at least 150 activists across the country before planned protests on Monday against the removal of the country 's top judge .
Authorities give conflicting accounts of the detentions .
Some local police and government officials say they detained activists to prevent further protests , while others say they know nothing about the detentions .
Pakistan has been shaken by demonstrations since President Pervez Musharraf removed Chief Justice Iftikhar Mohammed Chaudhry from office on March 9 .
Mr. Musharraf says he suspended Chaudhry because of complaints that he had abused his authority .
Chaudhry denies the allegations .
Lawyers and opposition parties say the president is trying to interfere with the independence of the judiciary .
Mr. Musharraf swore in senior judge Rana Bhagwandas as acting chief justice on Saturday .
The French government has confirmed the presence of the deadly H5N1 strain of the bird flu among domestic poultry in the southeastern part of the country .
It is the first outbreak among domestic waterfowl in the European Union .
The French agriculture ministry said late Friday that lab tests have verified that the deadly strain killed a turkey on a farm near Lyons .
The farm has been sealed off and more than 11,000 birds have been slaughtered since the illness struck Thursday .
Previously the deadly H5N1 form of the virus has been found only in wild birds in France and other EU countries .
The Japanese government on Friday banned the import French poultry products .
Separately , European Union health ministers met in Vienna Friday to discuss a public campaign to ease fears and raise awareness .
A persistent knee problem has forced Australian Open tennis champion Marat Safin of Russia to withdraw from the Hopman Cup mixed-team tennis tournament in Perth , Australia .
Safin has struggled with tendonitis in his right knee .
After missing the Paris Masters tournament and season-ending Masters Cup in Shanghai in November , Safin says his priority is to get ready to defend his Australian Open title rather than play in the Hopman event .
The Hopman Cup starts Friday with a qualifying match between China and the Netherlands .
Safin has been replaced on the Russian team by 20-year-old Teimuraz Gabashvili , who will partner Svetlana Kuznetsova .
Russia is in Group-A with the United States , Sweden and Serbia-Montenegro , and will not play until next Tuesday .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for a timetable for the withdrawal of foreign military forces from Iraq .
At a joint news conference with Jordan 's King Abdullah Thursday , the Russian leader said many Iraqis perceive the foreign troops as an occupying force .
He said a phased pull-out of coalition forces would help defuse the violence in Iraq and would help convince a considerable number of those involved in the Iraqi insurgency to join efforts for building a new political system in the war-torn country .
Mr. Putin also called for an international conference on Iraq to be held by the end of this year , saying it will give an added impulse to normalizing the situation in Iraq .
Mr. Putin and King Abdullah were meeting at the Russian president 's summer residence near Russia 's Black Sea resort of Sochi .
A hijacker seized a Sudanese passenger plane Wednesday and forced the pilot to fly to the Chadian capital , N'Djamena , before surrendering to authorities there .
No one was injured .
Officials say the plane , carrying 103 passengers , was hijacked this morning after it took off from Khartoum for Sudan 's western city of Al-Fasher .
Chadian forces surrounded the plane shortly after it landed in N'Djamena .
Officials say the hijacker was armed with a pistol and wanted the plane to be flown to Britain , where he wanted asylum .
When told there was not enough fuel , he agreed to go to neighboring Chad .
Indonesian police say they have arrested a suspected Islamist militant alleged to be a top aide to Malaysian extremist Noordin Mohammad Top .
Local media say anti-terror security forces captured Subur Sugiarto on a bus in Central Java on Wednesday .
Several police sources said Subur Sugiarto was part of Top 's inner circle of accomplices .
Top is a senior member of Jemaah Islamiah , an Islamist militant group seen as the Southeast Asian arm of al-Qaida .
He is blamed for helping mastermind a string of bombings in recent years in Indonesia , including the 2002 Bali nightclub attacks that killed 202 people .
Palestinian medical officials say an Israeli aircraft has fired rockets at a car traveling in the southern Gaza Strip , killing a senior Palestinian militant and wounding at least 10 other people .
Palestinian medics say three of the wounded are in critical condition .
An Israeli army statement said aircraft had targeted a senior militant accused of involvement in sniper fire and other attacks against Israeli troops .
Israel repeatedly warned earlier this week that it would launch strikes against Palestinian targets to avenge a suicide bombing Monday inside Israel .
The Palestinian militant Islamic Jihad organization claimed responsibility for Monday 's blast , which killed five Israelis in Netanya .
Earlier this week , Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz ordered the army to resume its practice of targeting senior militants for assassination .
The Israeli military says it has arrested a senior commander of the Palestinian faction Hamas after he spent more than a decade on the run .
Israeli troops and the Shin Bet security service caught Maher Uda overnight Saturday near the West Bank town of Ramallah .
Uda has been on Israel 's most wanted list since the 1990s .
He is considered a founding member of the Hamas military branch in the West Bank .
Israel blames him for the deaths of at least 70 Israelis .
Hamas has accused Palestinian security forces of helping Israel detain Uda .
The Palestinian Authority has not commented on the case .
The Palestinian Authority runs the West Bank , while Hamas has control over the Gaza Strip .
The Palestinian Islamist group took control of Gaza in 2007 , after battling forces loyal to Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
The United States says it is providing nearly $ 19 million in emergency aid for Ethiopia 's volatile Ogaden region .
The State Department said Friday Washington is working with the Ethiopian government , international partners and non-governmental organizations in responding to concerns over humanitarian conditions in the eastern region .
The U.S. says most of the $ 18.7 million will help provide food assistance through the United Nations World Food Program .
Some funds also will help pay for health , nutrition , and livelihood programs .
Years of drought , flooding , civil conflict , disease and food shortages have left residents in Ogaden vulnerable to poverty and famine .
Ethiopia 's Ogaden , also known as the Somali region , is an oil-rich , but poor area that is ethnically Somali .
It has long sought autonomy from Addis Ababa .
Former Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic has asked The Hague tribunal to subpoena British Prime Minister Tony Blair and former U.S. President Bill Clinton as defense witnesses in his war crimes case .
Mr. Milosevic said he has sent letters to embassies of a number of western countries requesting the testimony .
But he said their responses indicate the officials are not willing to appear .
The judges instructed Mr. Milosevic to present his request in writing .
His witness list also includes former U.S , Secretary of State Madeleine Albright , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and German Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping .
Mr. Milosevic 's request came as he resumed conducting his own case after the court reversed an order forcing him to accept appointed counsel because of concerns about his failing health .
Mr. Milosevic faces more than 60 counts of war crimes in the Balkan conflicts of the 1990s .
Ethiopia 's foreign ministry says authorities have pardoned nearly 18,000 prisoners to mark the occasion of the country 's third millennium .
In a statement Friday the ministry says the federal and regional governments pardoned 17,765 prisoners after reviewing recommendations made by national and regional pardon boards .
It said the pardons were issued September 11 , on the eve of the nation 's new year and millennium celebration .
Ethiopia celebrated the new millennium on September 12 - seven years after the rest of most of the world .
Ethiopia follows the Julian calendar , instead of the more common Gregorian calendar .
It is not the first time the nation has issued pardons at the new year .
Last year , at this time , Ethiopia pardoned more than 14,000 prisoners .
The ministry suggested more pardons could be coming , saying that the pardon boards in the Afar and Somali regions are still examining applications .
A U.N. official in Afghanistan says the H5N1 strain of bird flu has been found in a fourth Afghan province , and says that indicates the virus is slowly spreading around the country .
The spokesman for the U.N. 's Food and Agriculture Organization , Assadullah Azhari , says laboratory tests in Italy detected the virus in samples from dead chickens found in Kapisa province , northeast of the capital , Kabul .
The H5N1 strain of bird flu has already been found in the capital , Kabul , and the eastern provinces of Logar and Nangarhar .
The U.N. official says there are strong suspicions the virus has reached two other provinces , Laghman and Parwan , but says further testing is needed .
The official says the FAO is supporting efforts by Afghan authorities to strengthen nationwide surveillance of suspected bird flu outbreaks .
No human cases of bird flu have been reported in Afghanistan .
Republican presidential candidate John McCain has accused former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld of mismanaging the war in Iraq .
At a campaign stop Monday in South Carolina , McCain , a supporter of the war in Iraq , said Rumsfeld will be remembered as one of the worst defense secretaries in history .
McCain said the United States has paid a heavy price for the mismanagement of the war .
McCain is a member of President Bush 's Republican party .
He is seeking the party 's nomination to run for president in 2008 .
At Rumsfeld 's farewell ceremony in December , President Bush praised Rumsfeld 's strategic vision , deep devotion to the military , and love for the United States .
At the same event , Vice President Dick Cheney said Rumsfeld was the finest defense secretary the nation ever had .
Australian Prime Minister John Howard says a hasty pullout of foreign troops from Iraq would represent a defeat for the West .
In an interview on Australian television , Mr. Howard says such a defeat would undermine Australia 's security and the authority of the United States as a world superpower .
"He says anyone who believes withdrawing from Iraq will strengthen the West "" has taken leave of their senses "" ."
Australia has about 1,300 troops in Iraq as part of the U.S.-led coalition .
Mr. Howard warned against pulling Australian troops out while other coalition forces remain .
He says doing so would cause long-term damage to Australia 's alliance with the U.S. Mr. Howard reiterated his support for the U.S. position that foreign forces should only leave Iraq when the Iraqis can look after security themselves .
Former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell has criticized the Hurricane Katrina relief effort .
"In a taped ABC television interview to air late Friday , Mr. Powell expressed his opinion that "" there have been a lot of failures at a lot of levels - [ of ] local , state and federal [ government ] . """
"The former top U.S. diplomat said "" there was more than enough warning over time about the dangers to New Orleans , "" but not enough was done ."
Mr. Powell , who was the highest ranking black official during President Bush 's first term , says he does not believe race was a factor in the slow response to the hurricane .
Mr. Powell says many of those unable to evacuate New Orleans before Katrina struck were trapped by poverty , which disproportionately affects blacks .
New studies by British and French researchers show quick treatment for minor strokes can dramatically cut the risk of major strokes later .
The research , published in the journals Lancetand Lancet Neurology , found that patients treated within 24 hours for so-called mini-strokes cut the later risk of a major stroke by about 80 percent .
Oxford researcher Peter Rothwell says the vast majority of British stroke patients wait several weeks before reporting mini-stroke symptoms to health care professionals .
The second study by French researchers also found that the early , aggressive treatment of mini-strokes brought similar benefits .
Strokes occur when blood flow to the brain is blocked .
Such events kill brain tissue and are one of the leading causes of death or permanent disability worldwide .
Symptoms include facial numbness , slurred speech , partial paralysis and sudden headaches .
Treatments include blood thinning drugs and anti-cholesterol medications .
Crude oil prices fell Wednesday after a U.S. government report showed an increase in inventories , reflecting decreased demand .
The price of a barrel of oil for future delivery fell 35 cents [ about one percent ] to $ 38.68 a barrel during trading in New York .
The fall in prices followed a U.S. Energy Department report showing crude oil supplies in the U.S. rose last week by 5,49,000 barrels , or about two-tenths of one percent .
Iraqi police say a U.S. airstrike on a home in northern Iraq late Monday killed a number of people from the same family , but there are conflicting reports about the incident .
Residents in the town of Bayji say at least seven bodies were pulled from the rubble .
Locals say there may be several more people inside .
U.S. military officials have not commented on the Iraqi police report .
But the military issued a statement saying three men who were observed planting roadside bombs in Bayji later went to a nearby building , which was fired on by U.S. aircraft using precision-guided munitions .
Separately , Iraq 's election commission and international observers are now in Baghdad to review fraud allegations from last month 's parliamentary vote .
Final election results are not expected until after the visiting experts complete their work .
Lebanon 's pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud visited the home of slain former prime minister Rafik Hariri Friday , to express his condolences to the late politician 's family .
Mr. Lahoud made no public comments after the visit .
Mr. Lahoud and Cabinet members were told by Hariri 's family not to attend Wednesday 's funeral in Beirut , which attracted more than 2,00,000 mourners .
The Hariri family and Lebanese opposition politicians accuse Syria , the main power broker in Lebanon , of involvement in Monday 's car bomb attack that killed Mr. Hariri .
Damascus has denied any role in the assassination .
Meanwhile , Lebanese officials say they are searching for several men who flew from Beirut to Australia shortly after the attack .
The French News Agency quotes Lebanon 's Justice Minister as saying traces of explosives were found on their aircraft 's seats .
Oil prices went as high as $ 103.05 a barrel in Friday 's trading - the highest price ever recorded - before easing slightly .
It is the latest in a string of record-highs set in recent days as a weakening U.S. dollar and the threat of inflation makes tangible assets like oil and other commodities more attractive to investors .
Speculators interpreted recent comments by the head of the U.S. central bank Ben Bernanke as pointing to further interest rate cuts .
Interest rate reductions are intended to boost U.S. economic growth , but can also further weaken the dollar .
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are scheduled to consider oil supply and price policies at a meeting on March 5 .
The nations making up the OPEC cartel pump about 40 percent of the world 's oil .
Haiti 's interim Prime Minister Gerard Latortue says he has no plans to send a special envoy to South Africa to meet with ousted Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
Earlier reports said Mr. Latortue was sending a representative to talk with Mr. Aristide and South African President Thabo Mbeki .
Mr. Aristide has been living in exile in South Africa since he was forced from power last February .
The reports said the envoy would try to convince Mr. Aristide to persuade his followers to stop fighting his foes and help stabilize Haiti before elections planned this year .
More than 200 people have died in the violence since September .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan has warned governments around the world not to ignore international agreements prohibiting torture .
In a statement issued for International Human Rights Day Saturday , Mr. Annan said there has been a disturbing trend of nations claiming exceptions to prohibitions on torture , based on their own national security perceptions .
The U.N. chief said torture can never be a tool to fight terror , but rather is an instrument of terror .
In a separate statement , 33 U.N. human rights experts expressed alarm at attempts by many countries to circumvent international human rights laws by giving new names to practices such as torture .
"The experts called on governments to respect human rights standards and to not ignore them when they become , in the statement 's wording , "" inconvenient . """
Meteorologists say the storm known as Rita has strengthened into a category 1 hurricane .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Rita is packing winds of about 120 kilometers per hour as it moves west , past the Bahamas and toward the Florida Keys .
The storm reportedly caused little damage in the Bahamas .
However , thousands of tourists and residents have fled the Keys , a low-lying chain of islands off Florida 's southern coast .
Hurricane warnings remain in effect for the Keys and parts of western Cuba , including Havana .
Forecasters expect Rita to enter the Gulf of Mexico by Wednesday , and say it is possible that Rita will strike areas along the U.S. Gulf Coast devastated three weeks ago by Hurricane Katrina .
The Palestinian militant group , Hamas , says Syria has detained four Arabs allegedly recruited by Israel to kill Damascus-based Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal .
Speaking Tuesday in Lebanon , a Hamas spokesman said the four detainees are members of an Arab security service from an unidentified Middle East country .
The Syrian government has not commented .
Khaled Meshaal is widely viewed as Hamas ' overall leader , since Israel assassinated two other top Hamas figures earlier this year .
The latest Hamas charges come more than a month after Israel promised to restart an assassination campaign targeting Palestinian militants at home and abroad .
Israel announced the new assassination push days after Hamas suicide bombers struck two buses in southern Israel , killing 16 people .
Iran 's chief nuclear negotiator says Tehran has only agreed to a temporary freeze of some nuclear activities , and will never completely give up the right to produce nuclear fuel for peaceful purposes .
Hassan Rohani told reporters Tuesday in Tehran that Iran will only suspend uranium enrichment for the length of international negotiations on the country 's nuclear program , which he says should take months , not years .
"A U.S. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said Monday the world must "" remain vigilant "" about Iran 's nuclear ambitions ."
He said if Iran fails to uphold the terms of Monday 's European-brokered resolution , the International Atomic Energy Agency should immediately refer Tehran to the U.N. Security Council for the possible imposition of sanctions .
Washington has accused Tehran of violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty with a secret nuclear weapons development program .
Iran has repeatedly denied the charges .
Russian police confirm that a shrapnel-packed bomb exploded Sunday in a McDonald 's restaurant in St. Petersburg , injuring six people .
The blast shattered windows and caused the ceiling to collapse .
None of the injuries was serious .
Investigators say the bomb was left under a table at the fast food restaurant along Nevsky Prospekt , St. Petersburg 's main street .
Authorities have not said if the attack was terrorist-related .
A car bombing of a Moscow McDonald 's by Muslim extremists in 2002 killed one person and wounded seven .
The U.S. military has confirmed that it shot down an unmanned Iranian aircraft over Iraq last month .
A military spokesman Monday said U.S. forces tracked the drone in Iraqi airspace for one hour and ten minutes before shooting it down , about 100 kilometers north of Baghdad .
"The spokesman added that "" this was not an accident on the part of the Iranians . """
The incident was first reported by Wired.com earlier this month but , at the time , the U.S. military declined comment .
Washington has previously accused Iran of meddling in the affairs of neighboring Iraq , where the U.S. has had troops since it invaded the country in 2003 .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas Thursday banned men from working in hair salons or beauty parlors that cater to women , part of a campaign to enforce a stricter interpretation of Muslim law .
Hamas officials said any man who continues to cut women 's hair will be arrested and tried in court .
Islamic extremists in Gaza have been waging a campaign against cafes and shops that sell or play music deemed unsuitable , as well as against Christian institutions .
They have called on Hamas to impose a more fundamentalist brand of Islam .
One hairdresser who is impacted by the ban - Barakat al-Ghoul - told the Associated Press he fears he will no longer be able to make a living .
Al-Ghoul said he had been cutting women 's hair for 26 years .
He insisted he did not violate Islamic law because he only cuts hair and does not do makeup .
The head of the U.N. nulcear agency says Iran has agreed to allow inspectors access to a military site that the United States alleges is linked to a secret nuclear weapons program .
"Mohamed ElBaradei , the chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency , said in Vienna Wednesday U.N. inspectors could be expected to visit the Parchin military complex "" within days or weeks . """
The IAEA has been pressing Iran for months for access to the military site , located about 30 kilometers southeast of Tehran .
The United States says it suspects the Iranian military may be involved in nuclear arms research at the specially secured complex .
Iran insists that its nuclear activity is for peaceful purposes and that its military is not involved .
Italy says an Italian photographer kidnapped in Afghanistan last month has been freed .
Italy 's Defense Ministry said Gabriele Torsello was released Friday .
It gave no details .
Torsello and his interpreter disappeared between October 12 and 14 .
Torsello 's kidnappers had said they would kill him if Italy 's 18,00 troops were not withdrawn from Afghanistan .
In western Herat province , suspected militants with machine guns killed six policemen on patrol .
The district police chief was among those killed , and three police were wounded .
A U.S. newspaper reports that Washington is asking China to pressure North Korea on its alleged nuclear weapons program .
A story in Wednesday 's New York Times says two members of President Bush 's National Security Council recently met with Chinese President Hu Jintao in Beijing .
The report says the officials discussed new evidence that Pyongyang may have sold to Libya a form of uranium used in nuclear weapons .
The Times quotes Asian officials who say China has promised to send a delegation to North Korea .
But the officials say China also advised President Bush against making the kind of public statements about the North Korean situation as he did about Iraq 's alleged threat before the U.S.-led invasion in 2003 .
"Iran 's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has ordered state-run broadcasters to stop playing Western and so-called "" indecent "" music ."
Iranian media reported Monday that he asked the agency in charge of television and radio broadcasts , the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting , to implement the change within six months .
Mr. Ahmadinejad also called for the government to supervise the content of foreign-made television shows and films .
Mr. Ahmadinejad was elected earlier this year on a hard-line platform that called for a return to conservative principles .
Music performances and education in Iran had been sharply limited after Islamic clerics seized power in Iran in 1979 .
Many of those limits have been relaxed in recent years .
Australia 's foreign minister has met with the Solomon Islands ' newly elected prime minister , Snyder Rini , following violent protests on the island nation this week that were sparked by his appointment .
Speaking Saturday in the capital , Honiara , visiting Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he told Mr. Rini that economic reform is going to be central to the survival of the country .
Downer said he also addressed corruption issues with Mr. Rini .
Riots erupted Tuesday in Honiara after Mr. Rini was appointed prime minister .
Opponents accuse him of being under the influence of ethnic-Chinese businessmen .
Mr. Rini denies the allegations and has refused demands that he resign .
Honiara is reported to be quiet Saturday , with Australian troops patrolling the streets .
Friday , Australia said it will send 110 additional troops to the Solomon Islands .
Afghan authorities say NATO and Afghan troops have retrieved the flight recorder from the wreckage of an Afghan airliner , ten days after the plane crashed into a mountain near Kabul .
"An Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman says the flight recorder , also known as "" black box , "" is now in the hands of the investigating commission ."
A break in bad winter weather earlier Sunday allowed troops and investigators to reach the crash site for the first time since the Boeing 737 hit the mountain during a blizzard .
None of the 104 people on board survived the crash , making it Afghanistan 's worst civil aviation disaster .
Authorities estimate the recovery of the remains will take weeks .
Mexican police say gunmen shot 13 recovering drug addicts inside a rehabilitation center , killing at least 10 of them .
Witnesses say the armed men burst into the center , lined up the clients and opened fire on them .
The attack took place Sunday in the city of Tijuana , near the U.S. border .
Police did not immediately identify a motive .
But authorities suspect the killings may be linked to drug gangs .
Mexican security forces have been engaged in a brutal struggle against the country 's violent drug cartels since President Felipe Calderon took office in 2006 .
Nearly 30,000 people have been killed since the campaign began .
Last week , Mexican security forces seized 105 tons of marijuana in Tijuana , the largest Mexican drug bust in recent years .
The United Nations ' top humanitarian official is in Somalia to urge the interim government to allow humanitarian aid to reach the country 's people .
John Holmes , who arrived in the Somali capital of Mogadishu Saturday , is the highest-ranking U.N. official to visit the Horn of Africa nation in more than a decade .
Earlier Saturday , four people were killed when a bomb exploded nearly 400 meters from the U.N. compound in southern Mogadishu .
The trip by Holmes is taking place in the aftermath of heavy fighting between allied Somali-Ethiopian forces and Islamists in Mogadishu that killed hundreds of Somalis and forced up to 4,00,000 others to escape to makeshift camps on the city 's outskirts .
Many of them are living in squalid conditions , with little food , water or shelter .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan is calling on NATO and the European Union to do more to help end violence in Sudan 's Darfur region .
Speaking at the Munich Security Conference , Mr. Annan said NATO and the EU have the capacity to protect the people who are dying every day in western Sudan .
He said more international forces are needed to help stop fighting and to provide for secure humanitarian operations .
Mr. Annan says an African Union mission of about 3,000 troops and observers in the region can not do the job alone .
Earlier this month , a U.N. panel found that civilians in Darfur have been brutalized in a campaign that may amount to crimes against humanity .
Sudanese troops and pro-government forces have been fighting rebels , who launched an uprising two years ago .
"A leading international human rights group says it is "" deeply concerned "" for the safety of Iranian Nobel Laureate Shirin Ebadi , who has refused an order to appear before Iran 's hard-line Revolutionary Court ."
"Human Rights Watch called the court summons a "" blatant attempt "" by Iran 's government to "" silence one of the few remaining voices of human rights "" in the Islamic Republic ."
In Tehran Sunday , a Foreign Ministry spokesman said the human rights lawyer was the subject of a private complaint .
However , Ms. Ebadi , in comments to Reuters news agency , cast doubt on the use of the Revolutionary Court for such complaints , noting that the tribunal handles national security matters .
Saturday , Ms. Ebadi said she would not honor the court summons , because it failed to state the charges against her .
Failure to appear could land her in prison .
A U.S. commission has voted to shut down five Army bases , as part of the Pentagon 's plan to restructure hundreds of domestic military installations .
The independent Base Closure and Realignment Commission Wednesday approved the closure of facilities in Georgia , New Jersey and Virginia as commissioners began their final deliberations .
Fort McPherson in Georgia was one of the approved closures .
In May , the Pentagon recommended the closure of military installations from Maine to Hawaii .
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the plan would save $ 49 billion over 20 years and make it easier to deploy forces quickly .
President Bush must certify a final list of base closures recommended by the commission and submit the list to Congress for approval .
Authorities in volatile northwest Pakistan say six members of a family were killed when a grenade exploded in their vehicle Sunday .
Officials in the North Waziristan tribal region say a husband , a wife and their four children were killed instantly by the blast .
Four other people were wounded .
Officials say they do not know whether the family was transporting the grenade or if it was planted in their vehicle .
On Saturday , 12 children in northwest Pakistan were killed when they mistook a bomb for a toy and began playing with it .
A local police official , Said Zaman , said the children found the football-shaped bomb near their school in northwest Pakistan 's Lower Dir district .
It is not clear whether the bomb was placed there accidentally or deliberately .
Security officials in Afghanistan say a roadside bomb has ripped through a taxi outside the capital , killing at least one civilian and wounding four others .
Tuesday 's explosion occurred on a major road in eastern Kabul .
It is not clear who planted the bomb .
Separately , the U.S.-led coalition in Afghanistan said one of its soldiers was killed Monday in a fight with militants in Pech district of Kunar province .
The soldier 's nationality was not released .
The coalition also reports seven militants were killed in Paktika province Monday in clashes with U.S.-led troops , one of whom was slightly wounded .
A statement published in Pakistan , meanwhile , reports the death last week of Younus Khalis , leader of a pro-Taleban faction in Afghanistan who had been in hiding since 2003 , when he declared a holy war against foreign forces in Afghanistan .
Italy 's interior minister says authorities have thwarted planned terrorist attacks ahead of the country 's upcoming parliamentary elections .
Giuseppe Pisanu told reporters on the sidelines of a campaign rally in Cagliari , Sardinia , that the plot targeted the Milan subway and a basilica in Bologna .
He said it involved seven people and that three of them have been expelled from Italy , two are under arrest , one is under surveillance , and another is still at large .
Pisanu said the group planned to attack the San Petronio basilica in Bologna .
It features a fresco that Muslim groups have said is insulting to the Prophet Muhammad .
Pisanu 's remarks come as Italians are preparing for national elections on Sunday and Monday .
Russian President Vladimir Putin has ordered his administration to study foreign and domestic criticism of a bill to strictly regulate non-governmental organizations .
Mr. Putin offered no specific suggestions , but ordered submission of amendments to the controversial bill within five days .
As presently written , the bill would subject Russian branches of foreign organizations to various restrictions and to the oversight of Russian authorities .
Human rights groups have condemned the measure , calling it a reflection of the Kremlin 's crackdown on civil society institutions .
"President Putin said Monday that such a bill is necessary to combat the threats of terrorism and what he called "" misanthropic ideologies . """
But , he said , a civil society is crucial , and Russia can not afford to curtail that development .
A Netherlands court has opened a pretrial hearing in the case of a Dutch businessman charged with complicity in genocide by selling chemical weapons ingredients to ousted Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein .
Frans van Anraat appeared Friday in a Rotterdam courtroom .
The 62-year-old defendant is accused of exporting tons of chemicals that Iraq used to make weapons over a four-year period beginning in 1984 .
Prosecutors say Saddam used the weapons in the 1988 attack on the Kurdish town of Halabja that killed 5,000 people .
Some survivors of the attack attended Friday 's hearing .
A prosecutor told the court Mr. van Anraat continued to sell Iraq chemicals even after the Halabja attack .
But the defendant denies any wrongdoing .
Mr. van Anraat fled to Iraq in 1989 .
He returned to the Netherlands after the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 .
Another hearing is expected in June , and the trial in November .
A 13-year-old Cambodian girl has died from bird flu , bringing to seven the number of people in the country who have died from the virus .
The World Health Organization and Cambodian Health Ministry have confirmed that the girl was infected with the H5N1 strain of bird flu .
Elsewhere , Indonesia said it has confirmed another human bird flu fatality in the country .
Officials there say the 15-year-old girl 's death brings to 73 the number of people in Indonesia who have died from the H5N1 strain .
The WHO has not confirmed those results , and has so far confirmed only 63 people dying from bird flu in Indonesia .
The country has more bird flu deaths than any other nation .
WHO officials say 171 people have died from the virus worldwide since the outbreak began in 2003 , mostly in Asian countries .
Suicide bomb blasts have killed at least 12 people at a military recruitment center in central Baghdad .
More than 36 others were wounded in the strike , which witnesses say was carried out by at least two attackers .
Witnesses describe a scene of devastation in the area around the blast site , and hospital officials say they were treating numerous wounded .
The strike took place at the same recruitment center where a suicide attack killed at least 59 people last month .
Insurgents have stepped up their attacks in recent weeks , coinciding with a drawdown in U.S. troops .
As of September first , the United States says it is no longer engaged in combat operations , renaming the mission one of advice and assistance to Iraqi forces .
The Iraqi government last week placed the country on highest alert .
An influential Sunni Arab politician says U.S. forces stormed his Baghdad home early Thursday , arresting four of his bodyguards .
Adnan al-Dulaimi told reporters he was shocked by the raid .
He said he is a voice for national reconciliation and against sectarianism .
A U.S. military spokesman in Baghdad told VOA he could not confirm whether U.S. forces raided Mr. al-Dulaimi 's home .
Mr. al-Dulaimi heads the Conference for Iraq 's People , a leading political organization representing Iraq 's minority Sunni Arabs .
That group is urging Sunni Arabs to vote against the new constitution in next month 's national referendum .
It says if the document is approved , Sunni Arabs may be marginalized if Iraq is divided into Shi'ite , Kurdish and Sunni Arab regions .
Venezuelan and Chinese officials have signed agreements on oil , agriculture and technology during meetings in Caracas Saturday .
Chinese Vice President Zeng Qinghong and Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez signed 17 bilateral agreements and also discussed cooperation in mining , oil and gas projects , as well as technological partnership .
Last month , Mr. Chavez visited China , where he signed agreements with Chinese President Hu Jintao dealing with economic cooperation and joint oil field exploration .
Venezuela is the world 's fifth-largest oil exporter .
China , which faces a significant energy shortfall , is looking to strengthen energy cooperation with oil-exporting countries .
Venezuela is the third stop in Mr. Zeng 's five-nation tour of Latin America and the Caribbean .
He plans to leave Venezuela Sunday for visits to Trinidad and Tobago and Jamaica .
The U.S. military in Iraq says an insurgent , two women and a child have been killed in a clash between U.S. forces and militants north of Baghdad .
However , police and residents say 11 people were killed in the raid on a house near Balad , and the Associated Press says its photographs show 11 bodies wrapped in blankets arriving at a hospital in Tikrit .
U.S. officials could not immediately reconcile the discrepancy .
But a military spokesman said one al-Qaida suspect was killed and another was captured in the operation .
Elsewhere , police in Baghdad say two Shi'ite pilgrims were killed as they walked on a roadway toward Karbala for annual festivities marking a key religious celebration that ends Monday .
Separately , police in Baquba say at least four people died in two bombings .
In one incident , police say a suicide bomber on a bicycle missed a police patrol and killed two civilians .
The United Nations is beginning a formal inquiry Wednesday into the assassination of former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto .
A Pakistani investigation last year concluded that Taliban militants were likely responsible for Ms. Bhutto 's death in December 2007 .
But her political party has suggested that Ms. Bhutto 's political opponents may have played a role in the plot .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon announced the creation of the fact-finding commission after meeting with Ms. Bhutto 's widower , Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari , in Islamabad last February .
Ms. Bhutto was killed in a bomb attack after addressing an election rally near the Pakistani capital .
Eight cross-country skiers - including a former gold medalist - have been suspended for having high red blood cell counts at the Turin Olympics .
The eight were suspended for health reasons and not for doping .
They include 2002 gold medalist Evi Sachenbacher of Germany .
A high red blood cell count can occur naturally , but can also result from taking endurance-boosting drugs such as EPO .
Two Americans - Kikkan Randall and Leif Zimmermann - are among the eight .
The International Ski Federation says the suspensions are not punishments , but to protect the athletes ' health .
The U.S. Ski Federation says the suspensions are retroactive to Wednesday when the tests were conducted .
The only cross-country events that fall within the five-day suspension are the men 's and women 's pursuit races Sunday .
A top U.S. intelligence officer in Baghdad has reportedly warned that Iraq 's security situation is likely to get worse in the coming months .
The report from the New York Times newspaper cites government officials who say they have seen a cable the officer sent to superiors at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) last month .
The officer warned of more violence and sectarian clashes unless the Iraqi government can assert its authority and rebuild the economy .
The newspaper says the officer had just finished a year-long tour as the CIA 's station chief in Baghdad .
The Bush administration and the military continue to present a more optimistic view of Iraqi security .
"Monday , the Defense Department said the recent offensive in Fallujah had "" scattered the enemy , "" and said the Iraqi security forces continue to expand ."
Americans Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock and France 's Yves Chauvin have won this year 's Nobel Prize in Chemistry .
The award was announced Wednesday , morning at the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm .
The trio was cited for their work that led the way in the manufacturing of better drugs and environmentally-friendly plastics .
Mr. Chauvin began work in 1971 in the field of metathesis , which studies how molecules are broken down and then rearranged .
Mr. Schrock and Mr. Grubbs later developed more efficient and stable catalysts to reproduce the reaction .
All three men will share the $ 1.3 million cash award , which they will receive during a formal ceremony on December 10 .
Pakistan 's political opposition stormed out of parliament Friday over government statements that a top Pakistani nuclear scientist provided Iran with centrifuges .
Pakistan 's Information Minister acknowledged for the first time Thursday that Abdul Qadeer Khan sold centrifuges to Iran that can be used to process uranium for nuclear weapons .
Opposition lawmakers called the remarks irresponsible and stormed out after the parliament 's chairman refused to hold a debate on the issue .
Mr. Khan , known as the father of Pakistan 's nuclear bomb , has been under virtual house arrest after coming under investigation for passing nuclear secrets to Iran , North Korea and Libya .
The West African regional group known as ECOWAS is set to hold an emergency summit Wednesday in Niger to discuss the situation in Togo .
International criticism of Togolese authorities continued Tuesday over the choice of Faure Gnassingbe as the country 's new president after the military installed him hours after his father 's death Saturday .
Reacting to the criticism , Togo 's parliament amended the constitution on Sunday to allow Mr. Gnassingbe to serve out his father 's , Gnassingbe Eyadema 's term ending in 2008 .
The constitution had called for naming the speaker of parliament as interim president until elections are held in two months .
"The African Union 's Peace and Security Council Tuesday branded Mr. Gnassingbe 's seizure of power "" a blatant and unacceptable violation of the Togolese constitution . """
The United States , Britain and France are calling for new elections .
English football star David Beckham has arrived at the training ground of Premier League team Tottenham Hotspur in preparation of his month-long training stint with the club .
The 35-year-old Beckham arrived at the team 's facility east of London on Monday .
Tottenham had hoped to reach an agreement with Major League Soccer 's Los Angeles Galaxy to have Beckham for a two-month playing loan .
But talks broke down when the MLS club insisted that Beckham report with his Los Angeles teammates on February 10 to prepare for the 2011 season .
The Galaxy had been reluctant to allow Beckham to spend the offseason playing in Europe after he tore his Achilles ' tendon playing for Italy 's AC Milan last March and missed much of the MLS season .
However , Hotspurs manager Harry Redknapp is still hopeful the loan agreement can be worked out .
An international press freedom advocacy group is calling for the unconditional release of Burmese journalist U Win Tin who is about to spend his 76th birthday in prison .
The Paris-based group Reporters Without Borders issued a joint statement Friday , along with the Burma Media Association saying U Win Tin has been deprived of basic human rights .
They say he is not allowed to write and has been denied proper medical care for chronic health ailments .
The statement says that since the beginning of the year , he has been denied visits from the International Committee of the Red Cross .
U Win Tin was arrested in 1989 and is serving a 20-year sentence for writing anti-government propaganda .
He will turn 76 March 12 .
Pakistani officials say militants in northwest Pakistan have bombed a tanker truck carrying fuel to NATO forces in Afghanistan , destroying the tanker and a nearby van .
Officials say the bomb was attached to the tanker and exploded Wednesday as the vehicle traveled through the Khyber tribal area toward the Afghan border .
The number of casualties is not clear .
At least four people were reported wounded by the explosion and there are reports of at least one death .
Taliban militants regularly attack NATO supply vehicles that pass through Pakistan .
NATO and U.S.-led forces battling insurgents in landlocked Afghanistan are dependent on Pakistan for supplies , with at least 75 percent passing through that country .
A U.S. federal inspector says more than 96-million dollars earmarked for projects to rebuild Iraq can not be accounted for .
The report by Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction Stuart Bowen has prompted a criminal investigation into the missing money .
Mr. Bowen 's report , released Thursday , describes how tens of millions of dollars were dispersed for Iraq construction projects with little or no documentation during 2003 and 2004 .
The report says that while incompetence or haste may account for some problems , there are indications of fraud .
The inspector general notes the money in question was not U.S. taxpayer dollars but rather Iraqi money designated for reconstruction projects .
U.S. officials responding to the report have attributed the accounting problems to the difficulties of working in a war-time environment .
Ukrainian opposition supporters have ended their two-week-long blockade of government buildings and streets in Kiev , but some protesters vow to stay until a runoff election is held .
Opposition presidential candidate Viktor Yushchenko told demonstrators to go home , after parliament approved new anti-fraud laws for a court ordered December 26 repeat of the runoff vote .
President Bush Thursday congratulated Presidents Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland and Valdas Adamkus of Lithuania for helping mediate an end to the political crisis .
Also Thursday , Russia and NATO agreed to work to ensure free and fair elections in Ukraine .
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych was declared the winner of the flawed November election .
He calls the new election laws illegal and say they will do nothing to stop fraud .
Tropical Storm Alpha made landfall early Sunday in the Dominican Republic .
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says the storm came ashore near the city of Barahona , with maximum sustained winds close to 85 kilometers per hour .
The center says Alpha is expected to weaken rapidly but not before bringing heavy rain and possible flooding to the Dominican Republic and neighboring Haiti .
Alpha is the 22nd named storm of the Atlantic hurricane season , breaking the previous record set in 1933 .
Forecasters have run through this year 's list of names and have turned to the Greek alphabet .
Tropical storm warnings remain in effect for the Dominican Republic , Haiti , the Turks and Caicos Islands , and the southeastern Bahamas .
Electricity consumption is on the rise across Europe , but high oil prices and a reluctance in some countries to ' go nuclear ' is creating an energy gap .
So some power companies are switching back to ' coal ' - but this time , proponents say coal is cleaning up its act .
A new generation of ' clean coal ' power stations is due to open across the continent during the next five years .
But one of the first to come on line has been met with stiff opposition in the United Kingdom .
Paul Burge reports for VOA from London .
The Israeli army says its soldiers patrolling the border with Egypt have mistakenly shot and wounded an Egyptian security officer .
A military spokeswoman Monday said Israeli troops on patrol outside the city of Eilat saw what they considered a suspicious , armed person at the border .
She said the troops fired at the man after he cocked his weapon .
The Israeli army says the soldiers only then realized the man , who was wounded in the chest , was an Egyptian security officer .
A joint Israeli-Egyptian team is investigating the incident .
Shootings between Israeli and Egyptian forces along the border region have been rare since the two countries signed a peace treaty in 1979 .
Two British lawmakers have called for an inquiry into claims that a British-based security firm operating in Iraq withheld intelligence from British troops .
The Guardian newspaper says the lawmakers want the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to investigate whether the firm ArmorGroup directed an employee to withhold information from British forces .
The probe demand follows a Guardian report that a former British policeman working in 2004 and 2005 for the security firm in southern Iraq was told not to share intelligence gained during visits to local Iraqi police stations .
"The report says ArmorGroup has "" vigorously "" denied the claims ."
Magna International Inc. 's chief financial officer , James McAlpine , resigned and its chairman , Frank Stronach , is stepping in to help turn the automotive-parts manufacturer around , the company said .
"Mr. Stronach will direct an effort to reduce overhead and curb capital spending "" until a more satisfactory level of profit is achieved and maintained , "" Magna said ."
Stephen Akerfeldt , currently vice president finance , will succeed Mr. McAlpine .
An ambitious expansion has left Magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load as the automotive industry enters a downturn .
The company has reported declines in operating profit in each of the past three years , despite steady sales growth .
Magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half and the company 's Class A shares are wallowing far below their 52-week high of 16.125 Canadian dollars ( US $ 13.73 ) .
On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday , Magna shares closed up 37.5 Canadian cents to C $ 9.625 .
Mr. Stronach , founder and controlling shareholder of Magna , resigned as chief executive officer last year to seek , unsuccessfully , a seat in Canada 's Parliament .
Analysts said Mr. Stronach wants to resume a more influential role in running the company .
They expect him to cut costs throughout the organization .
The company said Mr. Stronach will personally direct the restructuring , assisted by Manfred Gingl , president and chief executive .
Neither they nor Mr. McAlpine could be reached for comment .
Magna said Mr. McAlpine resigned to pursue a consulting career , with Magna as one of his clients .
Resistance by native Caribs prevented colonization on Saint Vincent until 1719 .
Disputed between France and the United Kingdom for most of the 18th century , the island was ceded to the latter in 1783 .
Between 1960 and 1962 , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was a separate administrative unit of the Federation of the West Indies .
Autonomy was granted in 1969 and independence in 1979 .
The Slovene lands were part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire until the latter 's dissolution at the end of World War I .
In 1918 , the Slovenes joined the Serbs and Croats in forming a new multinational state , which was named Yugoslavia in 1929 .
After World War II , Slovenia became a republic of the renewed Yugoslavia , which though Communist , distanced itself from Moscow 's rule .
Dissatisfied with the exercise of power by the majority Serbs , the Slovenes succeeded in establishing their independence in 1991 after a short 10-day war .
Historical ties to Western Europe , a strong economy , and a stable democracy have assisted in Slovenia 's transformation to a modern state .
Slovenia acceded to both NATO and the EU in the spring of 2004 ; it joined the eurozone in 2007 .
The use of the name Montenegro began in the 15th century when the Crnojevic dynasty began to rule the Serbian principality of Zeta ; over subsequent centuries Montenegro was able to maintain its independence from the Ottoman Empire .
From the 16th to 19th centuries , Montenegro became a theocracy ruled by a series of bishop princes ; in 1852 , it was transformed into a secular principality .
After World War I , Montenegro was absorbed by the Kingdom of Serbs , Croats , and Slovenes , which became the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929 ; at the conclusion of World War II , it became a constituent republic of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia .
When the latter dissolved in 1992 , Montenegro federated with Serbia , first as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and , after 2003 , in a looser union of Serbia and Montenegro .
In May 2006 , Montenegro invoked its right under the Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro to hold a referendum on independence from the state union .
The vote for severing ties with Serbia exceeded 55 % - the threshold set by the EU - allowing Montenegro to formally declare its independence on 3 June 2006 .
Basutoland was renamed the Kingdom of Lesotho upon independence from the UK in 1966 .
The Basuto National Party ruled for the first two decades .
King MOSHOESHOE was exiled in 1990 , but returned to Lesotho in 1992 and was reinstated in 1995 and subsequently succeeded by his son , King LETSIE III , in 1996 .
Constitutional government was restored in 1993 after seven years of military rule .
In 1998 , violent protests and a military mutiny following a contentious election prompted a brief but bloody intervention by South African and Botswana military forces under the aegis of the Southern African Development Community .
Subsequent constitutional reforms restored relative political stability .
Peaceful parliamentary elections were held in 2002 , but the National Assembly elections of February 2007 were hotly contested and aggrieved parties continue to dispute how the electoral law was applied to award proportional seats in the Assembly .
Tourism , petroleum refining , and offshore finance are the mainstays of this small economy , which is closely tied to the outside world .
Although GDP grew slightly during the past decade , the island enjoys a high per capita income and a well-developed infrastructure compared with other countries in the region .
Curacao has an excellent natural harbor that can accommodate large oil tankers .
The Venezuelan state oil company leases the single refinery on the island from the government ; most of the oil for the refinery is imported from Venezuela ; most of the refined products are exported to the US .
Almost all consumer and capital goods are imported , with the US , Brazil , Italy , and Mexico being the major suppliers .
The government is attempting to diversify its industry and trade and has signed an Association Agreement with the EU to expand business there .
Poor soils and inadequate water supplies hamper the development of agriculture .
Budgetary problems complicate reform of the health and pension systems for an aging population .
A quarrel had arisen between the Horse and the Stag , so the Horse came to a Hunter to ask his help to take revenge on the Stag .
"The Hunter agreed , but said : "" If you desire to conquer the Stag , you must permit me to place this piece of iron between your jaws , so that I may guide you with these reins , and allow this saddle to be placed upon your back so that I may keep steady upon you as we follow after the enemy . """
The Horse agreed to the conditions , and the Hunter soon saddled and bridled him .
"Then with the aid of the Hunter the Horse soon overcame the Stag , and said to the Hunter : "" Now , get off , and remove those things from my mouth and back . """
""" Not so fast , friend , "" said the Hunter ."
""" I have now got you under bit and spur , and prefer to keep you as you are at present . """
If you allow men to use you for your own purposes , they will use you for theirs .
THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful .
"When their strife was at its height , a Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice , and said in a boastful tone : "" Pray , my dear friends , in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings . """
""" ARE the industries of this country in a flourishing condition ? "" asked a Traveller from a Foreign Land of the first man he met in America ."
""" Splendid ! "" said the Man ."
""" I have more orders than I can fill . """
""" What is your business ? "" the Traveller from a Foreign Land inquired ."
"The Man replied , "" I make boxing-gloves for the tongues of pugilists . """
A statistician is someone who is good with numbers but lacks the personality to be an accountant
The band at Ellsworth Air Force Base , South Dakota , was required to play for all generals who arrived on base .
One morning , when the commanding officer heard on the radio that a General Frost was expected just after noon , he sent the band scrambling to the flight line with instruments .
One of the musicians had also heard the radio announcement .
He took the C.O . aside for a whispered conference .
When they returned , the officer told us the performance was canceled .
There was no arriving general .
We had almost played for the weather forecast .
A gauge of future U.S. economic activity shows the recession is likely to continue another three to six months before recovery begins .
Monday 's report from a business group , the Conference Board , says its index of leading indicators fell 0.3 percent in March .
Economists watch stock prices , unemployment claims , building permits and other factors to predict economic activity in the near future .
Some indicators are not falling as fast as they had been , prompting some experts to predict the economy will begin to recover late this year .
Uganda has lifted the suspension of a private radio station whose host criticized the government over the death of Sudanese Vice President John Garang .
KFM radio renewed broadcasts Thursday , including host Andrew Mwenda whose comments sparked the dispute .
"Last week , Uganda 's Broadcasting Council shut down the station after Mr. Mwenda accused the government of "" incompetence "" for flying Mr. Garang in what he called a "" junk "" helicopter ."
Authorities also arrested Mr. Mwenda on charges of sedition , saying the comments could have sparked mass riots .
He has since been freed on bail .
Ugandan officials have also ordered the station to pay nearly $ 3,000 for costs of the suspension procedure .
Mr. Garang was killed on July 30 while flying back to southern Sudan aboard Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni 's personal helicopter .
A British newspaper says one of its reporters has disappeared in Iraq and it fears he has been kidnapped by gunmen .
The Guardian newspaper says Rory Carroll , a 33-year-old Irishman , was on assignment in Baghdad when he vanished earlier Wednesday .
The paper issued an appeal for information about his whereabouts .
Meanwhile , the British defense ministry reports that a British soldier was killed in a roadside bomb blast late Tuesday in the southern city of Basra .
And the U.S. military says a roadside bomb also killed one American soldier and wounded two others late Tuesday south of Baghdad , near Iskandariyah .
The new violence was reported as Iraqi election officials continue counting and auditing results from Saturday 's referendum on the constitution .
The Colombian navy says more than 100 Ecuadorean migrants are missing and feared drowned after their overcrowded boat capsized and sank in the Pacific Ocean .
Authorities said Wednesday that the migrants , hoping to enter the United States illegally , were aboard the vessel when it sank last Friday off Colombia 's coast .
Seven men and two women survived .
They were rescued by a fishing boat .
Investigators say the overcrowded Ecuadorean vessel had the capacity for 15 people but that as many as 120 people may have been on board .
The Colombian navy has deployed an airplane and boat to search for bodies .
Ecuador is also participating in the search .
Officials say the doomed boat had set sail from the Ecuadorean port of Manta .
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has met with his Russian counterpart , Sergei Ivanov , for talks on non-proliferation and other issues of bilateral interest .
At a joint news conference in Washington Tuesday , Secretary Rumsfeld said the government that evolves after Iraq 's elections later this month will be a broadly represented administration .
He said polls indicate all groups , including Sunnis , want to participate in the January 30 election .
Mr. Rumsfeld also rejected news reports saying the United States plans to send special forces into Syria in the hunt for militants .
The two officials also discussed defense and security cooperation .
Mr. Ivanov also is meeting today at the White House with President Bush .
China is sending a medical team to its earthquake ravaged southwest to offer reverse sterilization surgery for women who lost their only children in the May 12th quake .
"China 's "" one-child "" policy limits most families to a single child in most cases and many mothers opt for sterilization surgery after giving birth ."
Thousands of schools collapsed during the May 12th earthquake and by some estimates more than 6,000 students died .
The offer of reverse sterilization surgery comes as Chinese authorities block access to schools destroyed by the quake in an apparent effort to quell demonstrations by angry , grieving parents .
The director of the International Atomic Energy Agency , Mohamed ElBaradei , has stressed the importance of worldwide efforts to guarantee the security of nuclear materials , as he accepted the Nobel Peace Prize .
At ceremonies in Oslo , Norway , Mr. ElBaradei stressed the importance of the security of the human family .
He said world security strategies have not caught up with the security threats the world faces .
In accepting the prize for himself and his organization , Mr. ElBaradei noted that 15 years after the end of the Cold War removed divisions in Europe , the divisions between rich and poor countries still remain .
He expressed hope that globalization will bring the world community together in resolving problems .
Other Nobel prizes are being awarded in Stockhlom , Sweden , Saturday .
Literature Prize winner Harold Pinter will not attend because of health problems .
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has issued a defiant message to U.S. President George Bush , warning that the United States will not be able to attack Iran .
"Mr. Ahmadinejad said Wednesday that Mr. Bush 's era has "" come to an end . """
"The Iranian president also mocked what he called Mr. Bush 's desire to attack Iran , saying the U.S. leader will not be able to harm "" even one centimeter "" of the country ."
Mr. Ahmadinejad was speaking during a visit to the central Iranian city of Shahr-e-Kord .
On Tuesday , President Bush and European Union leaders met in Slovenia and warned of additional steps to pressure Iran to stop its controversial nuclear program .
The United States and five other major powers also are offering Iran new incentives to suspend its nuclear work .
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana will visit Tehran later this week to formally present that offer .
U.S. Middle East envoy George Mitchell holds talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem Thursday as he launches a new round of indirect peace talks .
Mitchell met Wednesday in Ramallah with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas .
Chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat says the talks focused on the borders of a future Palestinian state .
The Palestinians want a state in areas Israel captured in the 1967 war , with East Jerusalem as a capital .
They are demanding Israel stop building settlements in these areas .
Mr. Netanyahu has accepted the idea of a Palestinian state , but with conditions and without East Jerusalem .
Mitchell plans to shuttle back and forth between both sides for as long as four months to help narrow differences .
U.S. military officials in Afghanistan say coalition troops have killed three Taleban militants , including a top commander , during a firefight in southeastern Paktika province , near the Pakistani border .
The officials say an Afghan woman and two children were also killed in the gunfight that broke out late Tuesday when coalition troops tried to arrest the militants who were hiding in a village .
The military says among the dead was Taleban commander Raz Mohammed , who was implicated in several attacks against coalition forces .
Wednesday , five suspected insurgents were killed in a clash with U.S. troops in nearby Khost province .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan are hunting Taleban loyalists who have been waging a low-level insurgency since the hard-line Islamic regime was ousted in 2001 .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has annulled a controversial intelligence decree that would have forced Venezuelans to become informants and report on their neighbors or face prison time .
President Chavez took the action Tuesday , saying mistakes were made that must now be corrected .
The move comes just days after Mr. Chavez said the government would amend the law .
The new law , which sparked protests , called for Venezuela 's two main intelligence services to be replaced with new agencies overseen by Mr. Chavez .
It also required Venezuelans to act as informants to secret police and community monitoring groups loyal to the president .
Anyone refusing to provide information faced two to six years in prison .
Human rights groups criticized the law , saying it could silence the president 's critics .
Mr. Chavez had said the law was intended to protect national security and combat U.S. interference .
Organizers of Afghanistan 's landmark general elections say that according to early reports from nearly all polling stations , turnout was 53 percent .
U.N.-Afghan chief electoral officer Peter Erben says Thursday this is in line with earlier estimates , with some 6.6 million voters casting ballots in the first parliamentary elections in more than 30 years .
The figure for Sunday 's polls is more than one million lower than in last year 's presidential election .
Analysts say a range of factors , including a complex electoral system and the fear of attacks by Taleban insurgents , have caused the drop in numbers .
Meanwhile , vote counting from the elections is under way .
Election officials say they plan to issue intermittent results , but a final certified result for all of the provinces is expected to take more than month .
United Nations officials say new fighting has been reported between Congolese troops and dissident soldiers in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo .
The U.N. mission says Sunday 's violence occurred near the town of Kanyabayonga , which is held by dissident army units made of former rebels .
Tens of thousands of people have fled the area since clashes started more than a week ago .
Dissident soldiers are opposed to a government decision sending thousands of reinforcements to restore order in eastern Congo .
Kinshasa ordered the deployment after neighboring Rwanda warned it may send troops to attack Rwandan Hutu fighters in eastern Congo .
Rwanda blames the militants for the country 's 1994 genocide .
Saturday , U.N. officials said foreign troops have recently crossed into eastern Congo , but did not confirm if they were Rwandan soldiers .
U.S. officials in Beijing have announced that Chinese President Hu Jintao plans to visit the United States in April .
Details of his trip have not been released .
The news comes as U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick is in Beijing for talks with top Chinese officials on bilateral relations , security and proliferation issues .
Zoellick met with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao Tuesday , and is expected to meet with Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing .
As part of his three-day trip , Zoellick will also travel to the southwestern city of Chengdu .
Brazilian drug gangs have stepped up their resistance to an army operation in the slums of Rio de Janeiro , clashing with troops during daylight hours .
The two sides exchanged gunfire , with gangs lobbing grenades , in the downtown Providencia shantytown Friday .
A man , woman and young boy were wounded by fragments during the battle .
The army launched the show of force one week ago in response to the theft of 11 weapons from a military barracks .
About 1,500 troops have been mobilized in several slum areas .
While residents from other areas have welcomed the security crackdown , critics have questioned the use of the military in a police role and slum dwellers have complained their lives have been disrupted .
Rio is one of the world 's most violent cities .
The United States and France are moving closer to a deal on a United Nations resolution calling for an end to the fighting in Lebanon .
In New York Friday , U.N. Security Council President Nana Effah-Apenteng said American and French diplomats have taken the lead in drafting the resolution .
But he said talks may continue through Monday to resolve remaining differences on the best way to stop the fighting .
The truce resolution has been stalled by U.S. / French differences over whether a cease-fire should precede deployment of peacekeeping troops along the Israeli-Lebanese border .
In a sign of the increasing urgency of stopping the violence between Israel and Hezbollah , President Bush and French President Jacques Chirac both discussed the issue with U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan Friday .
Cuban President Fidel Castro has announced the renovation of the island 's electricity system , an effort to put an end to energy blackouts that have plagued Cubans for the past two years .
In a speech Tuesday , Mr. Castro said the nation 's massive energy plants will be replaced by smaller , regional ones and backed up by generators .
Cuba 's energy problem reached crisis point in 2004 when a key electrical plant broke down .
Since then , Cubans have suffered sporadic blackouts , often during the hottest months when demand for air conditioning is high .
The blackouts and power surges damage some appliances , leaving food to rot in the summer heat .
Witnesses in Somalia say heavy fighting between Islamist insurgents and Ethiopian troops has killed at least five people in the capital .
The latest fighting began after Islamic rebels attacked an Ethiopian military base in Mogadishu .
Witnesses say several civilians were killed by stray bullets and mortar fire .
Ethiopian troops entered Somalia two years ago to help the interim government fight an Islamist movement that was threatening to take over the country .
Somalia has been continuously torn by conflict since the fall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 .
Israeli troops shot and killed three Palestinians near the Israel-Gaza border fence at the Kissufin crossing , Tuesday .
The Israeli army said soldiers opened fire after spotting suspicious people near the fence .
Israeli soldiers arrested at least five suspected Palestinian militants after a brief exchange of gunfire near another Gaza border crossing .
One of the militants was wounded .
The Israeli military said the firefight broke out when soldiers surrounded a house where the militants were holed up .
Palestinian witnesses say a large number of soldiers backed by tanks and helicopter gunships took part in the operations at Karni - the main terminal for transport of goods between Israel and the Gaza Strip .
Witnesses said Israeli tanks and bulldozers also destroyed farmlands near the town of Khan Yunis .
Israeli forces have been carrying out brief incursions into Gaza since launching an offensive in late June to stop cross-border rocket attacks and rescue a captured Israeli soldier .
"Bolivian President-elect Evo Morales says he welcomes dialogue with the United States and forgives the U.S. government for what he calls "" so many humiliations . """
Morales made the comments Wednesday while visiting South Africa ahead of his inauguration January 22 .
He said any dialogue that helps end discrimination and poverty is welcome .
"Morales did not explain what he meant by "" humiliations . """
But he has made no secret of his plans to end a U.S.-funded coca eradication program at work in his country .
Morales campaigned on promises to encourage cultivation of the coca plant , which has traditional uses but also is used to make cocaine .
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez Tuesday said he is sure the U.S. Embassy in Bolivia has already started plotting to overthrow Morales .
But an embassy spokeswoman told the Associated Press that the idea is ridiculous .
The U.S. ambassador to New Delhi has expressed regret for his remarks that a landmark nuclear deal could fall apart if India votes against sending Iran to the United Nations Security Council for sanctions .
In a statement Thursday , Ambassador David Mulford expressed his sincere regrets , but said his remarks had been taken out of context .
In Washington , the State Department distanced itself from Mulford 's comments , saying he was expressing his own opinion .
Also Thursday , India 's Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran summoned Ambassador Mulford to tell him that his remarks were inappropriate and not conductive to building a strong partnership between the two countries .
The landmark agreement calls for the U.S. to share civilian nuclear technology with India and allow the supply of nuclear fuel to New Delhi .
In return , India is to separate its civilian and military nuclear programs and allow international inspection of its civilian facilities .
Palestinian security sources say Israel troops are withdrawing from the West Bank city of Nablus after two days of house-to-house searches for militants and bomb factories .
The sources say the Israeli forces began leaving Nablus late Monday .
However , the Israeli military has not confirmed that the operation is completely over .
Israeli troops entered the densely populated Palestinian city early Sunday and detained dozens of people .
They imposed a curfew that confined about 50,000 Palestinians to their homes .
Palestinians say Israeli gunfire Monday killed one Palestinian man and wounded several others .
The Israeli military said soldiers have uncovered at least three explosives laboratories .
Palestinian officials have condemned the operation , saying it could spark a new cycle of violence and undermine efforts to revive the peace process .
Israel , which describes Nablus as a terrorist hub , says the operation has been essential for defending Israeli citizens .
Indonesia has added more than 7,000 people to the death toll from last month 's earthquake and tsunami , bringing the total number of dead in that country to nearly 1,74,000 .
Welfare Minister Alwi Shihab said Saturday that an estimated 1,00,000 people are still missing .
He added that the death toll may rise as officials begin focusing on rebuilding the devastated province .
Mr. Shihab also repeated the government 's call for separatist rebels to resume peace negotiations .
Meanwhile , Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger rebels have accused the government of obstructing aid deliveries to tsunami-affected areas under rebel control - a charge officials deny .
Rebel leaders met with Norwegian Foreign Minister Jan Petersen and another peace envoy in the rebel stronghold , Kilinochchi Saturday to discuss the disaster .
Mr. Petersen is in Sri Lanka for talks aimed at reviving peace efforts between the rebels and government , and assess the needs of tsunami-hit areas .
Early results from Taiwan 's parliamentary election show pro-independence parties in the lead .
President Chen Shui-bian 's Democratic Progressive Party and its ally , the Taiwan Solidarity Union , are about three seats ahead of the opposition Nationalist alliance , with about a third of the votes counted .
President Chen is hoping his pro-independence coalition will win a majority in Taiwan 's 225-seat legislature .
A coalition led by the Nationalist Party , which advocates unification with Beijing , currently controls 51 percent of the legislature .
A total of 386 candidates vied for 176 directly elected seats .
The remaining 49 seats will be allocated based on the proportion of total votes each party receives .
Full election results are expected by 9.00 p.m. local time .
The United Nations World Food program has condemned the hijacking of another ship it hired to transport food to Somalians suffering from famine .
The WFP says the ship Miltzow was being unloaded Wednesday afternoon at the port of Merka when a group of gunmen boarded and forced the crew to sail out of the port .
The Miltzow was carrying maize , beans and cooking oil .
On Monday , the freighter Torgelow was hijacked off the eastern coast of Somalia .
The Torgelow was carrying fuel and supplies to another ship , the Semlow , which was recently freed by hijackers .
The Semlow was hijacked in June as it sailed from Kenya to Somalia with a load of rice donated by Japan and Germany .
The head of the U.N. 's nuclear agency is calling on Iran 's Arab neighbors to play a greater role in resolving the dispute between Tehran and the West over Iran 's nuclear program .
"International Atomic Energy Agency chief Mohamed ElBaradei Tuesday accused Arab nations of "" sitting on the fence , "" and urged them to engage in dialogue ."
"Speaking in Vienna , Elbaradei said Iran "" could be a positive force in the region ; it could also be a source of conflict . """
Several European powers and the U.S. accuse Tehran of secretly seeking nuclear weapons , a charge Iran denies .
The IAEA says Tehran is hampering its efforts to fully inspect its nuclear program and resolve the dispute .
Elbaradei also welcomed Washington 's recent turnabout at the IAEA , in which it promised to join in talks with other agency board members with Iran about the standoff .
Lebanon has filed charges against two Lebanese brothers named in a U.N. probe into the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Officials said they had recently arrested the two men , Ahmad and Mahmoud Abdel-Al , who are members of a pro-Syrian Islamic militant group , Al-Ahbash .
Meanwhile , U.S. officials warned of possible measures against Syria if it refuses to cooperate with the U.N. probe into Mr. Hariri 's killing .
U.S. officials are co-sponsoring a draft resolution at the United Nations that would impose sanctions on suspects in the murder .
Syrian officials have rejected the U.N. probe , which implicates top Syrian and Lebanese officials .
Russia , which holds a veto on the Security Council , says it will oppose sanctions against Syria .
The Arab League and Mr. Hariri 's son , Saad , have also expressed opposition to possible U.N. sanctions .
Ethiopia has reported 18 new cases of polio as it begins a nationwide vaccination program targeting more than 16 million children under the age of five .
A health ministry official says the polio cases were found in the Tigray , Amhara and Oromia regions .
The country kicked off its polio immunization campaign on Wednesday with over 1,00,000 volunteers and health workers taking part .
Polio has spread in Africa and elsewhere as far as Indonesia following a 2003 boycott of immunizations by Islamic leaders in northern Nigeria .
They claimed the vaccine was contaminated .
President Bush is promoting his new nominee for Supreme Court justice , citing what he says is a wealth of judicial experience .
Mr. Bush said on U.S. radio Saturday that Samuel Alito , currently a federal appeals court judge , has more prior judicial experience than any Supreme Court nominee in more than 70 years .
He also said Judge Alito has the qualities the American people expect - mastery of the law , a deep commitment to justice , and great personal character .
On Friday , the president told reporters he is disappointed that Senate confirmation hearings will not take place until January 9 for the man he hopes will succeed retiring Justice Sandra Day O'Connor .
Mr. Bush nominated Judge Alito October 31 , four days after his first nominee Harriet Miers withdrew amid criticism that she lacked judicial experience .
Afghanistan on Tuesday ordered a top European Union official and a United Nations employee to leave the country for allegedly threatening national security .
Government spokesman Humayun Hamidzada said authorities had detained the pair -- one British , the other Irish -- along with their Afghan colleagues who are being investigated .
The spokesman said the two , based in southern Helmand province , were involved in activities outside their mandate .
He said they have been declared persona non grata and have been given 48 hours to leave .
The two men are accused of having meetings with different tribes and groups , including possibly the Taliban .
One European diplomat said there is hope the incident is a result of a misunderstanding .
A U.N. spokesman , Aleem Siddique , said the U.N. mission in Afghanistan is trying to clarify the situation .
Masked assailants with grenades and automatic weapons attacked a wedding party in southeastern Turkey , killing 45 people and wounding at least six others .
Turkish officials said the attack occurred Monday in the village of Bilge about 600 kilometers from Ankara .
The wounded were taken to the hospital in the nearby city of Mardin .
Soldiers cut off the roads leading to the village as they searched for the gunmen .
Officials said they were not sure of the motive for the attack , which took place at the wedding of the daughter of a village official .
Interior Minister Besir Atalay said there was no apparent link to terrorism .
Turkey 's NTV television said the fighting may have involved rival members of state-sponsored militia set up to combat Kurdish separatist guerrillas .
Other reports suggested the violence was linked to a clan feud .
United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan says he is deeply disappointed in the decision of Burma 's military rulers to extend the house arrest of opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi for another six months .
The statement by Mr. Annan says the continued detention is not in the interest of Burma 's national reconciliation and democratization .
Aung San Suu Kyi , the head of the National League for Democracy , has spent 10 of the past 16 years in detention , mostly under house arrest .
Her current sentence was due to expire this month .
Mark Farmaner of Burma Campaign UK told VOA 's Burmese Service that Aung San Suu Kyi 's detention was extended because the junta 's ruling generals hope the world will forget about her .
The United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions on Burma for its suppression of the pro-democracy movement .
Officials in Seoul say the South Korean government has approved a proposal to withdraw one-third of the country 's troops from Iraq , while extending the remaining soldiers ' deployment by a year .
President Roh Moo-hyun 's Cabinet endorsed the withdrawal of 1,000 troops during the first half of next year .
Remaining members of the 3,200-strong South Korean contingent in Iraq would remain there until December 2006 .
After a review by Mr. Roh , the troop-reduction bill is expected to go before Parliament by Wednesday .
South Korea 's troops have been assigned to relief and rehabilitation efforts in the northern Iraqi town of Arbil since 2004 .
After the United States and Britain , Seoul 's troops make up the third-largest force in Iraq .
A new medical report says secondhand smoke can be just as harmful as smoking , and separate sections for smokers and nonsmokers in restaurants and bars do not help .
The U.S. Surgeon General , America 's top medical official , released the report Tuesday .
It says only smoke-free buildings and public places really protect nonsmokers from disease-causing agents in tobacco smoke .
The report says children are particularly vulnerable to secondhand smoke .
It says children in homes where parents smoke are at increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome , lung infections and more severe asthma .
A 2005 report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that secondhand smoke causes some 3,000 deaths each year from lung cancer , and 46,000 deaths from heart disease .
Secondhand smoke is also blamed for 430 infant deaths annually in the United States .
Portugal 's national football ( soccer ) team will host a match to raise funds to aid victims of the tsunami disaster in Asia .
The president of the Portuguese Football Federation says Portugal 's national team will play a squad made up of players from the Asian nations hit by last weekend 's devastating tsunami .
The match will be played during the first two weeks of January at Lisbon 's 65,000 seat Stadium of Light .
Money raised from ticket sales for the game will be donated to charities working to aid victims of the earthquake-triggered disaster , which may have killed as many as 1,50,000 people .
The European Parliament , the legislative arm of the European Union , has approved members of a new EU executive commission after nearly three weeks of negotiations .
The new lineup was approved early Thursday by a wide margin .
The vote means incoming commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso will likely take office Monday .
After the vote , Mr. Barroso thanked the parliament for the strong vote of confidence and said he recognizes the responsibility that implies .
The newly-elected commission members were nominated by Mr. Barroso .
The commission had been expected to be in place late last month , but Mr. Barroso withdrew his first nominees when parliament objected to some of them .
The blast occurred at 8.20 am as President Rugova 's motorcade was headed to a meeting with European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana .
There was no one seriously injured .
One person was injured .
The president was not injured .
There was flying glass and a shop window was blown out .
And the police are saying that was apparently detonated by remote control .
Mr. Rugova went on with his regular schedule and said that this proves that there are still elements that want to destabilize Kosovo .
"Sweden has raised its terror alert level from "" low "" to "" elevated "" because of intelligence information the security service said pointed to a "" shift "" in activities by groups targeting the country ."
The Swedish Security Service said Friday there was no imminent threat of an attack .
It said the shift was linked to groups in Sweden , but did not provide any further details .
Sweden 's move comes after a report earlier this week of a potential terror plot being hatched in Pakistan to attack several European capitals .
U.S. and European officials have said that plot was in its initial planning stages and not considered concrete enough to raise the terror threat level in European cities .
Swedish security officials noted that the threat level in Sweden was low compared to other European countries .
Survivors in southern Egypt say a candle fell over on a stage set late Monday , sparking a fire in a crowded theater that killed at least 31 people and injured about 30 others .
Witnesses say the fire in the city of Beni Suef spread quickly across the stage , triggering a stampede of spectators trying to exit the burning building .
Authorities say the one-storey theater building - attached to a state-run culture center - burned to the ground within an hour .
The fire is the worst in Egypt since a blaze aboard a crowded train near Cairo killed more than 350 people in 2002 .
Afghan officials say seven people were killed in eastern Afghanistan Saturday when the vehicle they were driving hit a roadside bomb .
The blast occurred in the eastern province of Kunar near the Pakistani border .
The victims were security guards working for a road construction company .
Authorities do not know who was behind the attacks .
Taliban militants waging an insurgent campaign against the government in Kabul have been blamed for similar incidents in the past .
Also today , a suicide bomber blew himself up in an attempted attack in the western Farah province .
Officials say there were no other casualties .
Police in France and Germany have encountered small , peaceful protests in sharp contrast to the violent clashes in Strasbourg Thursday evening ahead of NATO 's 60th anniversary summit .
Several hundred demonstrators protested calmly in the German town of Baden-Baden as U.S. President Barack Obama and German Chancellor Angela Merkel met at the town hall .
French police strengthened their cordon around the city of Strasbourg after detaining 300 people during clashes between protesters and police .
Officials say about 100 demonstrators are still in custody .
Police used tear gas on the demonstrators , who smashed windows and set fire to trash bins as security forces sought to block a protest march toward central Strasbourg .
German and French authorities have deployed about 25,000 police to maintain security around the two towns .
The absence of Burma 's military leader at an Independence Day dinner this week is generating more concern about his health .
Diplomats say 73-year-old General Than Shwe did not attend Thursday evening 's dinner because he was having medical tests in Singapore .
It was the first time since Than Shwe took power in 1992 that he did not host the annual dinner .
Instead , the military government 's second-in-command , General Maung Aye , hosted the event this year .
Diplomats say they were told that Than Shwe 's medical tests in Singapore were routine .
However , it is believed that he suffers from hypertension , diabetes and other ailments .
The military government in the past has dismissed rumors that the ailing senior leader is gravely ill .
The U.S. automotive company General Motors is reporting its largest annual loss .
GM Tuesday announced a deficit of $ 38.7 billion in 2007 .
It posted a fourth-quarter loss of $ 722 million .
In a restructuring effort , the company said it will offer buyouts to 74,000 hourly workers in the United States .
General Motors is the world 's largest automaker .
It says its North American division is struggling .
But overall , GM reported earlier this month that it sold more than two percent more cars this January than it had one year ago .
That increase followed sales declines reported by other major car companies .
"White House spokeswoman Dana Perino today said GM 's loss is "" significant . """
But she cited the company 's restructuring efforts and expressed optimism that the automaker would remain competitive .
Italian officials say Taleban forces may have kidnapped an Italian journalist missing in southern Afghanistan for three days .
Daniele Mastrogiacomo , a reporter for Italy 's La Repubblica newspaper , disappeared Sunday in Kandahar province with his interpreter and a guide , both Afghans .
A Taleban spokesman said Tuesday the group had captured a European reporter on suspicion of spying for British forces .
The spokesman did not mention Mastrogiacomo by name .
Italy 's ambassador to Afghanistan , Ettore Francesco Sequi , told the French Press Agency Wednesday that there has been no contact with the kidnappers so far .
Mastrogiacomo , 52 , has been covering conflicts in Central Asia and the Middle East for La Repubblica since 2002 .
Indian police say one person was killed and at least 26 others wounded by an explosion in Indian-controlled Kashmir Wednesday .
It is unclear what caused the blast that sparked panic in a busy market area of Rajouri town , about 100 miles north of Jammu , in southern Kashmir .
So far , none of the rebel groups operating in Kashmir have claimed responsiblity .
Militant separatists have been fighting Indian rule in Kashmir since 1989 .
Thousands have died in violence over the disputed region , and India and Pakistan have fought two wars over it .
But violence has eased since the nuclear rivals began moving toward peace more than a year ago .
Palestinian officials say President Mahmoud Abbas is heading to the Gaza Strip Saturday - his first trip to the region since deadly clashes between Fatah party supporters and the rival Hamas faction .
Officials have not explained the purpose of his visit .
Mr. Abbas of Fatah and Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas are expected to hold mediation talks in Jordan with King Abdullah .
No date has been given for those talks .
Tensions between Fatah and Hamas have been high for months .
Last month , forces from each side fought open street battles in Gaza and the West Bank .
At least 17 people died in that fighting .
A ceasefire agreed to last week has largely ended the violence , but has done little to resolve the standoff .
The first round of historic trade negotiations between Australia and China is under way in Sydney .
A free trade agreement between the two countries would boost China 's effort to be accepted as a full market economy and would provide Australia with access to the world 's largest marketplace .
The chairman of China 's National People 's Congress told trade forum members Monday that relations between the two countries have never been better .
China is Australia 's third-largest trading partner .
China supplies consumer goods and clothing while key Australian exports include iron ore , wheat , petroleum and coal .
Australia already has negotiated free trade agreements with the United States , Thailand , Singapore and New Zealand .
China is mired in increasingly bitter trade disputes with the United States and the European Union .
Officials in Pakistan say suspected pro-Taleban militants have killed an elderly tribal leader for allegedly spying for U.S.-led forces operating in neighboring Afghanistan .
The officials said Saturday they found the bullet-riddled body of Rahim Jan in the tribal northwestern region of North Waziristan .
He was 70 years old .
A note found on the body said anyone else caught for spying would face a similar fate .
The volatile North Waziristan region is a known hideout for Taleban remnants .
Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf signed a ceasefire accord Tuesday with tribal militants in the region .
Under the deal , Pakistan 's military will stop its crackdown in the border region if the militants disarm or expel foreign al-Qaida-linked fighters and stop attacks within Pakistan and in Afghanistan .
Voters in Luxembourg have approved the proposed European Union Constitution in a referendum Sunday - reversing a trend set by France and the Netherlands last month .
With all the votes counted , the charter was approved by nearly a 13-point margin , of about 57 to 43 percent .
Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker , a staunch supporter of the pact , had promised to resign if it was not approved .
This was the first referendum on the constitution since French and Dutch voters rejected it last month .
EU leaders then put the constitution issue on hold , and Britain , Denmark , Portugal , Sweden and Finland postponed planned votes .
All 25 member nations must approve the constitution before it can take effect .
The United Nations warns Haiti could see a resurgence of violence as the nation gears up for presidential and parliamentary elections .
In a report issued Tuesday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan says Haiti is at a critical juncture , as the country prepares for its first set of elections since the ouster of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in February , 2004 .
He says the security environment has improved in recent months , but the elections process would still benefit from outside assistance on security measures .
The report says elections must not be tainted by candidates seen by the public as criminals , or by funds of dubious origin .
Elections were scheduled for November this year , but officials say the date could be pushed back to December due to delays in preparation .
International relief officials have welcomed the agreement by India and Pakistan to open their heavily-militarized boundary in divided Kashmir to help survivors of this month 's devastating earthquake .
The two governments say crossings will be opened at five points starting November 7 to allow people to cross in both directions on foot .
Priority will go to families separated by the de~facto border .
A U.N. humanitarian coordinator in the quake zone , Rashid Khalikov , called the agreement a good step that will help extend aid to people in isolated areas .
But with a bitter Himalayan winter approaching and millions of people homeless or needing shelter , aid workers fear hunger , disease , diarrhea and injuries that are not treated could kill thousands more .
Some 2,00,000 people are still without any humanitarian aid three weeks after the quake that killed about 55,000 people , most of them in Pakistani Kashmir .
The United Nations will host a major conference on the long-term recovery efforts for Iraq Saturday at its main headquarters in New York .
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will co-chair the ministerial session with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki .
Representatives from 20 nations will participate in the conference , including many of Iraq 's neighbors , such as Iran , Kuwait and Syria .
The meeting will focus on a resolution adopted by the General Assembly last month to expand the U.N. 's presence in Iraq .
Also on the agenda is the International Compact on Iraq , a five-year economic and political recovery strategy .
Mr. Ban told reporters earlier this week he will urge the U.N. member states to follow through on their pledges of support for Iraq .
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will attend today 's conference .
A New York court has sentenced former Colombian drug kingpin Alberto Orlandez Gamboa to 40 years in prison for heading a cartel that smuggled large quantities of cocaine into the United States .
Authorities announced the sentence Thursday , for the 49-year-old Orlandez Gamboa , who once boasted of being among Colombia 's top 10 drug lords .
The former kingpin , who was extradited to the United States several years ago , had previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy , drug smuggling and money laundering charges .
Officials say Orlandez Gamboa led an organization of about a dozen large-scale traffickers in Barranquilla , Colombia , who smuggled tons of cocaine into the United States and other countries .
Colombia is the world 's largest cocaine producer .
Most of the cocaine produced there is shipped to the United States .
Cuba 's main labor organization says the state is to lay off more than 5,00,000 public sector workers by March .
The Cuban Workers Confederation said the country can not and should not continue supporting businesses , production entities and services with inflated payrolls .
It said the losses hurt the economy and are ultimately counterproductive , creating bad habits and distorting worker conduct .
In the statement released on state-run media , the union said Cuba would change its labor structure and salary system and increase private sector job opportunities .
Currently , the state employs 95 percent of the official work force .
Several weeks ago , Cuban President Raul Castro said his government would scale back its involvement in the nation 's economy and allow more Cubans to operate their own businesses and hire workers .
He said the aim was to create jobs for Cubans employed by the government who will be laid off .
"The leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization has urged militants to end attacks against Israel , saying such violence "" harms our national interest . """
The PLO executive committee made the appeal Sunday just hours after Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon gave his military a free hand against militant groups in Gaza .
Mr. Sharon accused newly-elected Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas of doing nothing to curb attacks on Israelis .
The PLO statement said violence by militant groups gives Israel an excuse to obstruct Palestinian stability .
Palestinian officials say Mr. Abbas will meet with militants in Gaza Wednesday to urge them to agree to a cease-fire that must be reciprocated by the Jewish state .
Incoming BP head Robert Dudley is expected to travel to Russia next week for the first time since fleeing the country in 2008 , signaling a thaw between BP and its Russian partner TNK-BP .
Dudley is the former chief executive of TNK-BP and will travel to Moscow with outgoing BP chief Tony Hayward .
The Financial Times reports their discussions with Russian counterparts will likely include the sale of Venezuelan assets from BP to TNK-BP , to help meet the cost of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill .
Dudley was compelled to leave Russia in 2008 in a dispute over control of TNK-BP .
He officially replaces Tony Hayward October 1 .
Mexican police are searching for the people responsible for kidnapping the two top traffic officials in the northern city of Monterrey .
Enrique Barrios Rodriguez was kidnapped early Monday morning when armed assailants rammed through the front gate of his home .
It was just a day after his operations chief , Reynaldo Ramos , was abducted from his home nearby .
Monterrey Mayor Fernando Larrazabal said the motive was not yet known .
He said the state prosecutor 's office is handling the investigation .
Monterrey is the capital of the Mexican state of Nuevo Leon , which has experienced a recent increase in drug-related violence .
The mayor has recently fired a large number of traffic police officers suspected of corruption or collusion with drug traffickers .
The seventh round of peace talks for Sudan 's troubled Darfur region have been postponed , but it is not clear when they will resume .
The African-Union sponsored talks were due to begin in the Nigerian capital , Abuja , Monday .
African Union officials are quoted as saying the delay could range from several days to an indefinite postponement .
AU spokesman Nureddin Mezni told the French News Agency , AFP , the talks were postponed because of logistical reasons .
The last round of talks ended in October with little progress amid escalating violence in Darfur and infighting within Darfur 's main rebel group .
Saturday , a senior U.S. official , Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs , Jendayi Frazer , met with rival leaders of the rebel Sudan Liberation Army to urge them to present a united front at the next round of peace talks .
Pakistan says it has tightened security around all its nuclear facilities following a surge of militant attacks within its borders .
"The head of the agency that handles Pakistan 's nuclear arsenal , Khalid Kidwai , told foreign reporters Saturday that , in his words , "" the state of alertness has gone up . """
However , he said there is no conceivable scenario in which Pakistan will fall to al-Qaida or Taliban type extremists .
Militant groups have launched a rising number of attacks on Pakistani security forces and intelligence personnel in recent months .
Pakistan is estimated to have about 50 nuclear weapons .
The New York Timessays international inspectors are requesting access to two secret Iranian military sites , where intelligence suggests Tehran could be developing nuclear weapons .
The newspaper says inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency have seen satellite photographs that indicate high explosives are being tested .
According to the Times , several sources , including IAEA member countries , diplomats and weapons experts provided intelligence about the Iranian military sites .
This week , Iran agreed to suspend uranium enrichment activities , staving off a U.S. push to bring the matter to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions over Tehran 's alleged nuclear weapons program .
But the Iranian government says it has not abandoned its right to enrich uranium .
The Indian government has lodged a protest against Pakistan over its plans to build a dam in the disputed region of Kashmir , with the help of China .
"India 's foreign ministry said Friday the dam is being built in part of the Himalayan valley that is "" illegally "" occupied by Pakistan ."
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but claimed by both .
Last month , Pakistan and China signed a memorandum of understanding for the construction of the Bunji hydroelectric project , which is aimed at generating electricity for Pakistan .
The country is dealing with power shortages .
The project has caused concern in India over Pakistan 's growing ties with China .
Friday , Pakistan summoned an official with the Indian High Commission in Islamabad to reject the India 's protest of the dam .
The presidents of Afghanistan and Iran have opened a new road between their countries that they hailed as a symbol of the bilateral cooperation needed to restore peace and stability to the region .
Iran agreed to build the 123-kilometer road between its Dogharoun region and Afghanistan 's western Herat province that officials say is a key source of trade for Afghanistan .
In his remarks , Iranian President Mohammad Khatami said Iran desires a stable , modern and free Afghanistan .
He also said that his government is studying more than 30 road-building projects in Iran to further expand trade to Afghanistan and Central Asia .
Visiting Afghan President Hamid Karzai thanked Iran for building the $ 60 million highway and emphasized that the reconstruction of war-torn Afghanistan will also help its neighbors .
President Karzai used the new highway to return home and end his two day visit .
The U.S. military says five American troops died in Iraq Thursday , including four killed in a roadside bombing .
The military says the blast in eastern Baghdad also injured two soldiers .
The other fatality was of a soldier who died of combat injuries north of Baghdad in Salahaddin province .
In other news , a mortar attack Friday killed one person in the southern Baghdad neighborhood of Zafaraniyah .
In the northern city of Kirkuk , a roadside bomb killed two police officers .
Also , the British military has confirmed the escape of some prisoners at a British-run detention facility near the southern city of Basra .
The Reutersnews agency says 10 prisoners escaped earlier this week by swapping clothes and places with individuals who came as visitors .
The news agency says those who swapped clothes with the prisoners are being held for questioning .
The African Union 's Peace and Security Council says that Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo should stay in power after his mandate expires until new post-war elections can be organized .
In a statement Thursday following crisis talks on Ivory Coast , AU leaders recommended President Gbagbo stay on for one year and called for the appointment of a new prime minister .
The president 's mandate ends October 30 - the day an election was to have taken place in Ivory Coast .
The election has been delayed indefinitely after the warring sides failed to implement key steps to organize the vote .
Several peace deals have failed to take hold and Ivory Coast remains divided between rebels who control large swaths of territory in the north and the government in the south .
The U.S. space agency NASA says the Phoenix Mars probe landed in an ideal location to search for evidence that the planet could support life .
At a news conference Tuesday NASA scientists said the probe is located in a valley in the polar region believed to contain subterranean ice .
Phoenix is designed to dig through the Martian soil and into the layer of ice to look for the basic chemical components essential to supporting life .
NASA says there were few problems with the landing Sunday , though a radio glitch on a spacecraft orbiting Mars will likely delay the scheduled mission by about one day .
A team of Canadian scientists reports clear skies at the landing site , with temperatures ranging between negative 30 and negative 80 degrees Celsius , and with 32 kilometer per hour winds .
Pop musician John Mayer will headline an upcoming concert to celebrate the 10th anniversary of Save The Music .
Founded by the VH1 television network to promote music education in U.S. public schools , the organization has reportedly provided $ 34 million worth of instruments to schools around the country .
Scheduled for September 20 at New York City 's Lincoln Center , the concert will also feature 50 of the students the organization has helped over the past decade .
Asian markets fell sharply Monday , on fears a recession in the United States will weaken the demand for Asian exports .
China 's Shanghai Composite Index tumbled more than 7 percent while the Nikkei in Tokyo and Sensex in Mumbai were both down almost 4 percent .
Hong Kong 's Hang Seng index dropped more than 5 percent .
The major European indexes in London , Paris and Frankfurt were also down in midday trading , but much less than Asia , dropping about 2 percent .
Analysts say investors are still nervous following last week 's worldwide plunge , despite President 's Bush 's plan to revitalize the slowing U.S. economy with tax rebates .
The U.S. Federal Reserve meets this week to consider if another interest rate cut is needed to help stave off a recession .
Thousands of Palestinian police have begun deploying in the southern Gaza Strip .
Palestinian authorities say security forces headed for two of the most volatile areas Friday - the refugee camps of Khan Younis and Rafah .
Militants there have launched rocket and mortar attacks at Israeli troops and Jewish settlements .
Shortly after the Palestinian security move , Israeli army chief General Moshe Yaalon ordered his troops to halt operations in all areas of the Gaza Strip where Palestinian police are deployed .
"Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Thursday conditions are right for a "" historic breakthrough "" in the Middle East peace process because of steps taken by the new Palestinian leadership ."
Mr. Sharon told a group of Israeli businessmen , Israel would be willing to advance the peace process if Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is able to stop terror attacks .
Niger President Mamadou Tandja has approved Prime Minister Seyni Oumarou 's new cabinet , with several top ministers returning to posts they held before a no-confidence vote toppled the previous government last month .
Prime Minister Oumarou took office this week after Niger 's parliament voted out Prime Minister Hama Amadou 's government on May 31 .
Mr. Amadou 's opponents accused him of complicity in a corruption scandal in Niger 's education ministry .
Two former education ministers have gone to jail since an audit found hundreds of thousands of dollars were missing .
Among those keeping their seats in the 31-member cabinet announced Saturday are the Foreign Minister Aichatou Mindaoudou , Interior Minister Albade Abouba and Economy and Finance Minister Ali Mahamane Lamine Zeine .
Tibet 's spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , has voiced his support for pro-democracy protests in Burma and is urging Buddhist members of the country 's military government to show more compassion .
In an interview with VOA in Washington Tuesday , the Dalai Lama said that he admired the recent efforts of Buddhist monks in Burma to push for democracy and added that he felt that their cause was just .
"The Dalai Lama also urged Buddhist members of Burma 's military government to use the religion 's teachings of "" compassion "" and "" love "" when confronting such situations of crisis ."
The Dalai Lama spoke with VOA after meeting with President Bush in Washington on Tuesday .
The Burmese government 's bloody crackdown of pro-democracy protests in Burma last month left at least 10 people dead .
Thousands of monks and other activists have been arrested , and many more are believed to have been killed .
Ukraine 's opposition party has agreed to hold talks with President Leonid Kuchma to resolve the crisis over Sunday 's disputed presidential elections .
Mr. Kuchma is calling on all political forces in the former Soviet republic to immediately enter into talks .
The appeal came after about 2,00,000 opposition supporters marched on the presidential office in Kiev to demand that their candidate - Viktor Yushchenko - be declared the winner of the election .
Official preliminary results showed the pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovich winning the vote .
"Mr. Kuchma , a backer of the prime minister , called the protests a "" political farce "" that he says could lead to "" unforseeable consequences . """
U.S. and European observers reported indications of extensive voter fraud in Sunday 's election .
Russian President Vladimir Putin called European criticism inadmissible because final results have not been announced .
Tim Nardiello has been reinstated as the U.S. skeleton coach shortly after an arbitrator found no evidence to support claims that he sexually harassed two team members .
The U.S. Bobsled and Skeleton Federation board lifted Nardiello 's suspension during a meeting on Monday .
The decision was effective immediately .
Nardiello is hoping to rejoin the team for the season 's final skeleton World Cup in Altenberg , Germany , on Thursday and Friday .
Despite the decision , the U.S. Olympic Committee still controls whether Nardiello will coach the four American sliders at the Turin Olympics , which open on February 10 .
Also Monday , the best U.S. hope for men 's skeleton gold , Zach Lund , was publicly warned but not suspended by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency over a failed drug test this season .
Israel has charged nuclear whistleblower Mordechai Vanunu with violating the terms of his release from prison .
Vanunu was freed from an Israeli jail last year after serving an 18-year sentence for revealing secrets of Israel 's nuclear program to a British journalist in the 1980s .
Under terms of his release , the former Israeli nuclear technician was barred from contacting foreigners or leaving the country .
He was re-arrested in November , after granting another interview in which he said Israel has up to 200 atomic warheads , a neutron bomb , and hydrogen bombs .
Israel has never admitted or denied having a nuclear arsenal .
Reuters news agency reports a new indictment includes charges that Vanunu , a Christian convert , also violated release terms by trying to visit the West Bank in December to attend a midnight Christmas religious service .
The wife of one of two foreign journalists kidnapped in Gaza City Monday has appealed for their release .
The wife of an abducted New Zealand cameraman Wednesday called the kidnappings pointless , saying the men had been sharing the Palestinians ' stories with the world .
The other kidnapping victim is an American .
Palestinian security forces are searching for the two journalists who were working for U.S. media outlet Fox News .
No group has claimed responsibility for the abductions .
On the political front , Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of the Fatah movement and the ruling group Hamas have agreed to resume talks on forming a unity government .
Previous talks collapsed over Hamas 's refusal to implicitly recognize Israel .
In another development , hospital sources say an Israeli air strike early Wednesday destroyed a building in southern Gaza , killing two people .
The Israeli army says it targeted a weapons storage facility .
Israeli police say a Palestinian suicide bomber has critically wounded two Israeli security guards in the Israeli city of Beersheba .
Police say the bomber detonated his explosives outside the city 's main bus station during the morning rush hour .
There has been no immediate claim of responsibility .
Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas condemned the bombing - the first such attack since Israel began withdrawing Jewish settlers from the Gaza Strip earlier this month .
Meanwhile , the Israeli cabinet has approved the deployment of Egyptian police along Egypt 's border with Gaza .
Under an agreement with Cairo , Egypt is to position 750 border police on the Egyptian side to replace Israeli troops trying to block cross-border smuggling .
Israel says all of its forces in Gaza will leave the border area by the end of September .
Hamas ' political leader says the Islamic group will not renew a truce with Israel that expires at the end of this year .
At a rally in a Palestinian refugee camp near the Syrian capital Friday , Khaled Mashaal said Hamas would not enter a new truce while the Palestinian people are preparing for a new round of conflict .
Later , Mr. Mashaal told al-Jazeera television that the current truce would not be affected , but that calls for extending it are unrealistic .
He accused Israel of carrying out targeted assassinations , arrests and airstrikes in violation of the truce .
Israel says such actions are in self-defense .
"The Associated Press reports the Palestinian Authority said Mr. Mashaal 's statement was "" irresponsible "" and a violation of the truce ."
The commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan says the international community has underestimated the resurgence of the Taleban , partly because the war in Iraq diverted attention and resources .
"Lieutenant-General David Richards told BBC Thursday that the international community "" took their eye off this ball and a vacuum was allowed to develop "" in Afghanistan ."
The British general said the war in Iraq absorbed people 's interest and resources for a while .
But he said he is optimistic the insurgency in Afghanistan can be defeated .
Afghanistan in recent months has suffered the worst violence since a U.S.-led attack ousted the Taleban government in December 2001 , in part for failing to hand over Osama bin Laden .
Fighting Thursday left 12 suspected Taleban militants dead in southern Nawzad district .
A coalition soldier was also killed by a landmine in the same province .
Burma 's official media reported Saturday that troops confiscated grenades and other weapons from a border hide-out used by suspected drug traffickers , after an earlier gunbattle killed 13 policemen and members of their patrol .
The state-run New Light of Myanmar said the shoot-out took place February 20 near the northeastern town of Tachileik , which borders Thailand .
The report said an anti-drug squad was patrolling the Mekong river near Tachileik when it encountered drug traffickers and a gunbattle broke out .
Eight policemen were killed , along with two local militia members and three police boat drivers .
Two police officers were wounded .
The paper said that police , acting on a tip , found 15 tents several days later on an island in the Mekong .
Authorities seized grenades , rifles , ammunition and blocks of caffeine - an ingredient of methamphetamine tablets .
U.S.-led coalition forces in Afghanistan say troops killed 24 Taleban fighters in a seven-hour battle in the country 's restive south .
A coalition statement said the fight happened Wednesday in the Sangin district of Helmand province .
Two coalition soldiers were wounded .
Meanwhile , Amnesty International said Taleban insurgents are deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan to instill fear and exert control over the population .
The London-based rights group said civilians are increasingly facing suicide attacks , abductions and beheadings .
The organization said Taleban militants have a deliberate policy of killing teachers , abducting aid workers and burning school buildings .
Amnesty said at least 756 civilians were killed in 2006 , mostly from roadside bombs and suicide attacks .
The rising cost of living is hurting a growing number of Americans , especially those who live on fixed incomes .
Among the hardest hit are retirees .
More and more are finding that the money they set aside for their golden years may not be enough to take care of their needs .
It 's an issue an estimated 46 million Americans will grapple with as they reach retirement age this year .
Iraqi authorities say 50 suspected insurgents have been detained in connection with Sunday 's suicide car bombings in the nation 's two holiest Shi'ite cities , Najaf and Karbala .
Hospital officials say the death toll from the carnage has risen to 66 - at least 52 lives lost in Najaf and 14 in Karbala .
More than 140 people were wounded by the explosions .
Shi'ite Muslim leaders have appealed for calm , saying such attacks are clearly attempts to ignite sectarian violence and prevent Iraq 's first post-Saddam elections , scheduled to take place in six weeks , on January 30 .
Shi'ite leaders are urging their followers not to resort to revenge attacks , but to focus on the upcoming national elections .
The United Nations says that restoring tens of thousands of degraded wetlands around the world could help reduce the threat of a bird flu pandemic .
Preliminary findings of the report were released Tuesday during a conference at the U.N. Environment Program headquarters in Nairobi , Kenya .
The report says the loss of wetlands is forcing many wild birds into alternative habitats like farm ponds and paddy fields .
It says these habitats increase the risk of the birds spreading avian flu to domestic birds like chickens .
The U.N. agency says current efforts to curb the spread of the disease , like isolation or destroying birds , are likely quick fixes that offer limited short-term benefits .
Bird flu has killed more than 100 people since 2003 , mostly in East Asia .
The disease also has been detected in birds in parts of Africa , the Middle East and Europe .
The African Union 's peace and security council has called on all African countries to impose sanctions against Togo over the military 's installation of President Faure Gnassingbe .
The council Friday backed sanctions by the West African group ECOWAS , and urged the AU 's 53 members to follow suit .
ECOWAS has agreed to slap an arms embargo and travel ban on Togolese officials .
Also Friday , the vice president of Togo 's ruling party , George Dahoun Gignor , told VOA that Mr. Gnassingbe must step down , saying the embattled leader has no choice .
However , the ruling party Friday backed Mr. Gnassingbe as its candidate in presidential elections expected within 60 days .
President Gnassingbe told cheering party members he accepted the nomination .
He took power earlier this month after the death of his father , Gnassingbe Eyadema .
United Nations peacekeeping troops in Haiti have surrounded the residence of ousted President Jean-Bertrand Aristide , threatening to forcefully evict demobilized soldiers who have seized the compound .
Haiti 's interim government has ordered the rebels out of the compound in the suburb of Tabarre .
The government said Thursday U.N. troops will do whatever is necessary to clear the residence .
The ex-soldiers - who helped lead the three-week rebellion that ousted Mr. Aristide in February - moved into the compound on Wednesday .
Mr. Aristide is in exile in South Africa .
British police have arrested a suspect wanted in Spain in connection with last year 's March 11 train bombings in Madrid in which nearly 200 people died .
Police identified the man as 39-year-old Spaniard Moutaz Almallah Dabas .
They said they were acting on an extradition warrant from Spain when they took him into custody at Slough , west of London .
Mr. Almallah Dabas is wanted for alleged terrorist offenses linked to the Madrid train bombings .
He is due to appear in London 's Bow Street magistrate 's court on Monday .
On Friday , Spanish police arrested his brother , Mohannad Almallah Dabas , who holds a Syrian passport , also in connection with the Madrid train bombings .
The United States is revitalizing efforts to jumpstart six-party talks on North Korea 's nuclear ambitions .
"In an interview with Reuters and AFP , Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice says the United States has already made Pyongyang "" a very good proposal "" and is waiting for it to be accepted ."
"North Korea has so far refused to return for a fourth round of talks , alleging the United States plans to launch military strikes against it - an idea Ms. Rice calls "" farfetched . """
Meanwhile , a senior U.S. official is in Seoul for talks with South Korean officials after stops in Tokyo and Beijing .
Michael Green , director for Asian affairs on the U.S. National Security Council , says the Bush administration is holding out hope that Pyongyang will return to the negotiations .
Italian chemical giant Montedison S.p.A. , through its Montedison Acquisition N.V. indirect unit , began its $ 37-a-share tender offer for all the common shares outstanding of Erbamont N.V. , a maker of pharmaceuticals incorporated in the Netherlands .
The offer , advertised in today 's editions of The Wall Street Journal , is scheduled to expire at the end of November .
Montedison currently owns about 72 % of Erbamont 's common shares outstanding .
The offer is being launched pursuant to a previously announced agreement between the companies .
Burkina Faso ( formerly Upper Volta ) achieved independence from France in 1960 .
Repeated military coups during the 1970s and 1980s were followed by multiparty elections in the early 1990s .
Current President Blaise COMPAORE came to power in a 1987 military coup and has won every election since then .
Burkina Faso 's high population density and limited natural resources result in poor economic prospects for the majority of its citizens .
Recent unrest in Cote d'Ivoire and northern Ghana has hindered the ability of several hundred thousand seasonal Burkinabe farm workers to find employment in neighboring countries .
Once one of the wealthiest of the Yugoslav republics , Croatia 's economy suffered badly during the 1991 - 95 war as output collapsed and the country missed the early waves of investment in Central and Eastern Europe that followed the fall of the Berlin Wall .
Between 2000 and 2007 , however , Croatia 's economic fortunes began to improve slowly , with moderate but steady GDP growth between 4 % and 6 % led by a rebound in tourism and credit-driven consumer spending .
Inflation over the same period has remained tame and the currency , the kuna , stable .
Nevertheless , difficult problems still remain , including a stubbornly high unemployment rate , a growing trade deficit and uneven regional development .
The state retains a large role in the economy , as privatization efforts often meet stiff public and political resistance .
While macroeconomic stabilization has largely been achieved , structural reforms lag because of deep resistance on the part of the public and lack of strong support from politicians .
The EU accession process should accelerate fiscal and structural reform .
While long term growth prospects for the economy remain strong , Croatia will face significant pressure as a result of the global financial crisis .
Croatia 's high foreign debt , anemic export sector , strained state budget , and over-reliance on tourism revenue will result in higher risk to economic stability over the medium term .
Morocco annexed the northern two-thirds of Western Sahara ( formerly Spanish Sahara ) in 1976 and claimed the rest of the territory in 1979 , following Mauritania 's withdrawal .
A guerrilla war with the Polisario Front contesting Morocco 's sovereignty ended in a 1991 UN-brokered cease-fire ; a UN-organized referendum on the territory 's final status has been repeatedly postponed .
The UN since 2007 has sponsored intermittent talks between representatives of the Government of Morocco and the Polisario Front to negotiate the status of Western Sahara .
Morocco has put forward an autonomy proposal for the territory , which would allow for some local administration while maintaining Moroccan sovereignty .
The Polisario , with Algeria 's support , demands a popular referendum that includes the option of independence .
The Genoese built a fortress on the site of present day Monaco in 1215 .
The current ruling Grimaldi family first seized temporary control in 1297 , and again in 1331 , but were not able to permanently secure their holding until 1419 .
Economic development was spurred in the late 19th century with a railroad linkup to France and the opening of a casino .
Since then , the principality 's mild climate , splendid scenery , and gambling facilities have made Monaco world famous as a tourist and recreation center .
A CRAB , forsaking the seashore , chose a neighboring green meadow as its feeding ground .
A Fox came across him , and being very hungry ate him up .
"Just as he was on the point of being eaten , the Crab said , "" I well deserve my fate , for what business had I on the land , when by my nature and habits I am only adapted for the sea ? '"
Contentment with our lot is an element of happiness .
A GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and rubbing down his Horse , but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for his own profit .
""" Alas ! "" said the Horse , "" if you really wish me to be in good condition , you should groom me less , and feed me more . """
A POLITICAL Leader was walking out one sunny day , when he observed his Shadow leaving him and walking rapidly away .
""" Come back here , you scoundrel , "" he cried ."
""" If I had been a scoundrel , "" answered the Shadow , increasing its speed , "" I should not have left you . """
The makers of French 's Mustard made the following recent statement :
We at the French 's Company wish to put an end to statements that our product is manufactured in France .
There is no relationship , nor has there ever been a relationship , between our mustard and the country of France .
Indeed , our mustard in manufactured in Rochester , NY .
The only thing we have in common is that we are both yellow .
At least our team is trying to win a game .
Coach went out and set up our new pitching machine the other day .
Unfortunately it beat us 04-Jan .
Clinton 's mother prayed fervently that Bill would grow up and be president .
So far , half of her prayer has been answered .
Applied excessively , styling gel could cause you to have a hair-raising experience .
India says it is increasing security to thwart possible militant strikes in the country .
Indian Home Minister P. Chidambaram Tuesday warned reporters against creating an alarmist picture and said India is increasing its level of preparedness to meet any terror threat or attack .
The minister 's comments come just days after Israel said it has information that the same group that carried out the 2008 attacks in Mumbai , India , is planning another assault against Western and Israeli targets in the country .
Israel 's counter-terrorism bureau released a statement Thursday , September 17 , saying it has information that terrorists are planning a number of attacks across India , and may be focusing on hitting groups of Israelis and Westerners .
India is a popular destination for Israeli tourists , especially during Jewish festivals such as the traditional new year , which began Friday .
The United States , Israel and Australia have issued travel advisories to their citizens .
India 's holiday season includes Hindu , Islamic and secular holidays , as well as the period surrounding the commemoration of the September 11 , 2001 terror attacks on the United States .
Ugandan 's president says his country could increase the number of troops it has in Somalia as part of the African Union peacekeeping force .
"In a statement Thursday , President Yoweri Museveni says Uganda is "" capable "" of providing all 8,000 troops authorized for the force by the AU ."
The statement says he made the comment to United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon on Wednesday , on the sidelines of the AU summit in Ethiopia .
Mr. Museveni told the U.N. leader he has to discuss the matter with his High Command first but will inform Mr. Ban of the decision .
Uganda and Burundi have deployed a total of about 2,000 troops to Somalia , where the Somali government and allied Ethiopian troops have been battling an Islamist-led insurgency for more than a year .
Fighting centered in Mogadishu has killed thousands of people and prompted more than 6,00,000 others to flee the city .
Mr. Ban has expressed concern that few African countries have fulfilled their promise of troops for the AU peacekeeping froce .
Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe named an electoral commission to run parliamentary elections expected in March .
The main opposition , Movement for Democratic Change said it had no confidence in the commission .
Justice minister Patrick Chinamasa announced that Mr. Mugabe appointed a 5-member body under the chairmanship of High Court Judge , George Chiweshe , who was appointed by President Robert Mugabe , leader of Zimbabwe 's ruling Zanu-PF party .
Judge Chiweshe made legal history in 2002 when he told the High Court that the state did not have to provide any evidence to continue to detain a critically ill opposition member of parliament who was trying to get out of prison on bail .
He was also appointed by Mr. Mugabe to draw up a new map of voting districts released before Christmas .
The MDC expressed concerns over Mr. Chiweshe 's appointment because of the voter redistricting which removed three of the MDC 's stronghold constituencies .
Mr. Chinamasa insisted that the commission reflects an all-inclusive consultation process , incorporating all three parties represented in Zimbabwe 's parliament , including the MDC .
But , new electoral laws signed into law by Mr. Mugabe last week , for the first time give the military , police and prison officials a substantial role in the next poll , and they can , if recruited to serve , control voting and counting .
There was a frenzy of lawmaking late last year to establish new legislation and electoral authorities ahead of the poll which Mr. Mugabe says will be held in March ahead of his 25th anniversary of coming to power in 1980 .
The MDC suspended participation in all elections five months ago because it said the electoral playing field was uneven .
It said it would only take part when Zimbabwe 's laws and practice complied with regional electoral principles agreed to by Mr. Mugabe and other southern African countries last August .
However most political analysts believe the MDC will take part in the general election , despite Zimbabwe 's lack of compliance with regional electoral practices and laws .
Western observers are not expected to be invited to cover Zimbabwe 's poll as they said the last two national elections were neither free nor fair .
In a weekend of second-round qualifiers for the 2012 African Cup of Nations , no result was more surprising than Niger 's 1-0 upset of reigning African champions Egypt .
Football fans in Niger 's capital celebrated throughout the night , blowing horns and singing the praises of their Menas ' win over the Pharaohs of Egypt .
It was a stunning upset , even for the most loyal of Niger 's football faithful .
FIFA ranks Egypt 9th in the world .
Niger : 154th .
Niamey 's 35,000 seat Stade Gnral Seyni Kountch was full long before the mid-afternoon kick-off under a blistering sun .
Striker Ouwa Moussa Maazou scored the only goal in the first half , getting past Egyptian defender Mohamed Abel Shafy who failed to clear .
Goalkeeper Essam el-Hadary charged Maazou , but the 22-year-old striker - who is on loan from French club Bordeaux - slipped the ball past him into the net .
Egypt pressed for the equalizer at the start of the second half , but rarely got much past midfield .
Their best chance came off a free kick in the 76th minute .
But Mahmoud Fathallah was ruled offside .
Maazou 's goal and solid defense gives Niger three points in Group G and drops Egypt to the bottom of the group with only one point after two matches , following their opening 01-Jan draw with Sierra Leone in Cairo .
It was an inauspicious start for the record seven-time continental champions , who next play South Africa in Johannesburg .
Niger hosts Sierra Leone as it pushes to qualify for the 2012 tournament in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb targeting a police patrol has killed six people and wounded at least 11 more in a city north of Baghdad .
Police said Thursday the blast took place in central Tikrit , hometown of former dictator Saddam Hussein .
They said four police officers were among the dead and several others were wounded .
Overall violence in Iraq has yet to match the peak reached in 2006 and 2007 .
However , insurgents have intensified attacks since inconclusive March elections left the country without a governing coalition .
Sylvester Stallone faces stiff fines in Australia , where he is accused of importing a muscle-building hormone .
The movie star was detained Feb. 16 in the Sydney airport , while authorities searched his hotel room .
He and his group subsequently left the country , and he was not compelled to attend the March 13 hearing .
He is accused of possessing human growth hormone , classified in Australia as a restricted performance-enhancing drug .
The maximum penalty for illegal possession is a fine of $ 86,000 and five years in prison .
Stallone is unlikely to face such a sentence .
Police in western India say at least 52 people were killed and at least eight others injured Thursday , when a train collided with a tractor carrying a wedding party .
Police say the accident happened in a small village in Maharashtra state , some 800 kilometers northeast of Bombay , also known as Mumbai .
They say a local train bound for the central city of Nagpur smashed into a tractor as it was crossing the tracks .
Accidents are relatively frequent on India 's railway network , which handles 13 million passengers on 14,000 trains every day .
In December , a head-on collision of two passenger trains in Punjab state brought opposition party calls for the resignation of Railways Minister Laloo Prasad Yadav .
At least 37 people died in that crash .
The New York City Fire Department has released thousands of pages of oral histories and hours of radio transmissions from the September 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center .
A New York State court of appeals ruled in March that the items must be made public .
The oral histories were complied by firefighters shortly after the attacks on the twin towers , and include accounts from firefighters and emergency medical personnel who were on the scene .
The New York Times newspaper and families of the victims of the attacks had sued for the release of the material .
The city had said it wanted to protect the privacy of those involved , and not jeopardize the case against Zacarias Moussaoui , who later pleaded guilty to conspiring with the hijackers .
The United Nations says the December 26 Indian Ocean tsunami dumped tons of hazardous waste on the shores of Somalia .
A spokesman for the U.N. Environment Program says containers filled with nuclear , chemical and medical waste broke apart when they washed ashore , and have been spread by the weather .
The spokesman says there have been reports from northern Somalia of illnesses consistent with radiation sickness , including respiratory infections , mouth ulcers , abdominal hemorrhages and unusual skin diseases .
The United Nations says foreign companies , many from Europe , began dumping toxic waste on Somalia 's shore in the 1980s , but the practice accelerated after the 1991 overthrow of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre .
The tsunami is believed to have dislodged the hazardous materials .
Japan has pledged $ 17 billion in development aid to other Asian countries for infrastructure projects that will help boost growth .
Speaking Saturday to the World Economic Forum in Davos , Switzerland , Japanese Prime Minister Taro Aso also repeated a pledge to lend $ 100 billion to the International Monetary Fund .
Mr. Aso also announced a new greenhouse gas emissions plan for Japan and pledged to announce emissions targets by June .
The Japanese leader planned to spend only half a day in the Swiss mountain resort and return home by late Sunday to deal with a stormy session of parliament , where the opposition hopes for a victory in elections that are required to be held this year .
More than 5,000 U.S. , Iraqi and British troops have swept through an Iraqi town south of Baghdad in the latest operation against insurgents ahead of January elections .
The U.S. military says troops arrested 32 suspected insurgents in Jabella Tuesday .
The raid follows operations in Fallujah and the northern city of Mosul .
U.S. Defense Minister Donald Rumsfeld says those operations show how much insurgents are opposed to a democratic Iraq .
He warned that attacks will likely increase ahead of the elections .
Meanwhile , foreign ministers from Arab and Western countries met Tuesday in Egypt and said full participation in the vote is the key to reconciliation in Iraq .
In another development , a Sunni Muslim cleric was gunned down outside a mosque north of Baghdad .
Terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden apparently has surfaced on an audiotape calling for the overthrow of Saudi Arabia 's government .
The lengthy message criticizes the Saudi monarchy , saying its attempts at reform will not change anything and that change will only come through armed struggle and the government 's overthrow .
Authorities say the authenticity of the tape , which surfaced Thursday on an Islamist website , could not immediately be verified .
He also praises the militants who attacked the U.S. consulate in the Saudi city of Jeddah earlier this month , asking God to be merciful on them .
Four of the attackers were killed , a fifth was arrested .
Five consulate staff members who were not American were also killed .
Osama bin Laden remains a fugitive .
He was last heard from in a videotape shortly before the U.S. presidential elections last month .
The U.S.-led military forces in Afghanistan say more than a dozen militants were killed in a day-long battle in southern part of the country Saturday .
A coalition and an Afghan soldier were also killed in the fighting .
Saturday 's fighting took place in southern Helmand province .
Coalition and Afghan forces called for air strikes on militant positions after coming under attack in the area .
Also in the south , Taleban militants executed the kidnapped son of a district police chief .
The victim was reported to be between 14 and 18-years-old .
In other violence , a roadside bomb hit an Afghan army convoy killing at least two soldiers and wounding three others in the western Farah province on Sunday .
A Taleban spokesperson has taken responsibility for the deadly blast .
The World Food Program ( WFP ) warns that fighting in Chad could leave up to 7,00,000 people short of food .
The U.N. agency expressed concern that violence will delay truck convoys trying to reach refugees in eastern Chad and displaced people in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The agency says the trucks must get through before the end of next month , when seasonal rains are expected to make road travel impossible .
Chad 's government is fighting an insurgency that President Idriss Deby says is backed by Sudan .
The Sudanese government denies the charge .
The World Food Program says it remains operational in Chad despite recent clashes that led it to evacuate non-essential staff .
The agency says it is wrapping up April food distribution in eastern Chad , where it looks after some 2,00,000 refugees from Darfur .
The agency feeds another 5,00,000 displaced Sudanese in Darfur itself .
Police in the northeastern U.S. state of Connecticut say a disgruntled employee at a beer distribution firm went on a shooting spree at his place of employment , leaving nine people dead including himself .
A labor union official says the suspect was a driver who had worked at the company , Hartford Distributors .
He apparently went on a rampage Tuesday , after being summoned for a disciplinary hearing .
The shooting took place at 7.30 in the morning at a company warehouse , while a large number of people were inside the building during a shift change .
Police say , after the rampage , it appears the gunman shot and killed himself .
Afghan officials are welcoming the Netherlands ' decision to keep its troops in southern Afghanistan , but the officials say the international community must do more to equip domestic forces .
Afghan Defense Ministry officials Saturday said the extension of the Dutch mission is a positive step .
But they said further training of Afghan troops is necessary to ensure long-term security in Afghanistan .
The Dutch government announced Friday it will extend the mandate of its troops until 2010 .
The soldiers serve as part of a NATO force .
Around 1,700 Dutch troops have been deployed in the southern Uruzgan province , where NATO and U.S.-led forces are fighting fierce battles against Taliban militants .
A renewed Taliban insurgency in Afghanistan has turned this year into the deadliest yet since the 2001 U.S.-led invasion ousted the Taliban government .
The prime minister of Pakistan , Shaukat Aziz , has called for European help in repatriating three million Afghan refugees in his country .
Mr. Aziz says refugee camps along the border with Afghanistan provide safe havens for terrorists .
The prime minister also promised to strengthen efforts to restrict cross-border attacks into Afghanistan .
The Pakistan government has proposed a controversial plan to fence and mine parts of the mountainous border .
Mr. Aziz is in Belgium , holding talks with European Union and NATO leaders .
After Tuesday 's meeting , NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer called for an end to criticism of Pakistan 's efforts to contain militants .
"Scheffer said it does not make sense to have a public "" blame game . """
The Afghan government and the United States have both accused Pakistan of failing to clamp down on Taleban insurgents based in Pakistan who launch attacks into Afghanistan .
Police in Indonesia have asked churches to prepare for possible Christmas attacks by digging holes for suspicious objects that might be bombs .
Officials in the central Java city of Solo said Friday they are requesting churches put any suspicious object into a one-meter deep hole to store until a bomb squad can arrive .
Earlier this month , Jakarta 's police chief said he will deploy up to 17,000 security officers to safeguard the Indonesian capital during the upcoming Christian holiday season .
Five years ago , militants bombed 11 churches on Christmas Eve , killing 19 people .
Police suspect the radical Jemaah Islamiyah group was responsible .
Shops , businesses , and offices were shut in Indian-controlled Kashmir Monday , after separatists called a strike to protest the death of a teenager .
Seventeen-year-old Tufail Ahmad Matoo was killed in the main town of Srinagar Friday during clashes between anti-India protesters and police .
Residents say Mattoo was hit by a teargas shell fired by police and was carrying a school bag when he was hit .
Police say they are investigating the death .
Clashes between demonstrators and security forces have erupted in Srinagar since the incident , with strict security restrictions in place to prevent further violence .
Kashmiri Muslim separatists have been fighting for two decades for independence from India or a merger with Muslim-majority Pakistan .
The insurgency has killed more than 47,000 people .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan , but claimed in its entirety by both .
The neighbors have fought two wars over the region .
Hundreds of millions of Christians worldwide are celebrating Christmas Saturday .
Pope John Paul , in his traditional Christmas Day message , expressed concern at violence in the Middle East and Africa .
"The Roman Catholic pontiff said he follows the situation in Iraq with "" great apprehension . """
"He said he has "" anxious concern "" about the situation in the Holy Land but also feels "" invincible confidence "" at the prospects for peace there ."
President Bush issued a Christmas Day call for Americans to volunteer to help the neediest of their fellow citizens .
The President also acknowledged Americans serving in Afghanistan , Iraq and elsewhere around the world .
Britain 's Queen Elizabeth sent a special radio message to her troops serving around the world expressing pride and gratitude .
Later in her annual televised Christmas message , the Queen highlighted Britain 's ethnic and religious diversity and appealed for tolerance .
Church and state leaders have joined ordinary citizens in Russia in marking Orthodox Christmas Eve .
The head of the Russian Orthodox Church , Patriarch Alexy , urged believers to mark Christmas with good deeds .
Russia 's Itar-Tass news agency says he urged the faithful to pool their efforts to allow the joy of Christmas to enter every home .
Russian President Vladimir Putin attended a Christmas Eve service at a cathedral in the Siberian city of Yakutsk .
In a message to citizens , Mr. Putin urged them to follow the Christmas tradition of helping those in need .
In Rome , Pope Benedict extended Christmas greetings to Orthodox Christians as Roman Catholics marked the feast of the Epiphany - the Three Kings or Wise Men who tradition says brought gifts to Jesus following his birth .
Many Orthodox churches celebrate Christmas on the Julian calendar - about two weeks later than most other Christians .
The Indian foreign ministry says India and Pakistan will hold the first meeting of a joint anti-terrorism panel in March .
The talks will be held in Pakistan 's capital , Islamabad , on March 6 .
The idea for the panel was first proposed last year during a meeting in Cuba between Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
The initiative was created after deadly train bombings in Mumbai in July .
India claimed Pakistan 's top intelligence agency ( ISI ) played a role in the attack , a charged denied by Pakistan .
Efforts to improve relations between India and Pakistan began with a peace process in 2004 .
The two countries have fought three wars and have yet to resolve their dispute over the region of Kashmir , where an anti-India insurgency has killed tens of thousands since 1989 .
World number-two men 's tennis player Rafael Nadal of Spain has withdrawn from the season 's first Grand Slam tournament , the Australian Open , which begins Monday in Melbourne .
The 19-year-old French Open champion said on his website Tuesday that he would be unable to play because of a foot injury he suffered in October at the Madrid Masters .
He has not played a tour event since .
Nadal joins American Andre Agassi on the sidelines for the tournament , which could still lose Russians Marat Safin and Maria Sharapova because of fitness doubts .
But top men 's seed and world number-one Roger Federer of Switzerland says he is in good form heading into the event and is fully recovered from the ankle injury that hampered him last season .
U.S. officials say Pakistan and Afghanistan must decide for themselves on an appropriate and effective method of reducing cross-border infiltration .
In an interview with VOA Wednesday the U.S. Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs , Nicholas Burns , said Pakistan 's plan to lay land mines along parts of its border with Afghanistan is a bilateral issue .
Afghan officials have opposed the plan , saying it will do little to prevent terrorism .
Afghanistan has repeatedly accused Pakistan of not doing enough to stop Taleban militants from infiltrating their shared border .
Burns also said he hopes the two sides can resolve a wave of Taleban-led attacks on civilians and NATO forces inside Afghanistan .
Fighting in Afghanistan increased dramatically last year , killing thousands and igniting tensions between Kabul and Islamabad .
"European Union Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson says EU trading partners are not ready to make what he calls the "" hard decisions "" needed for a world trade deal ."
Monday , Mandelson made his first speech to the European Parliament since last month 's World Trade Organization meeting ended with little progress .
He said Hong Kong and other major European trading partners are not yet prepared to make the concessions needed to bring talks to a successful conclusion in 2006 .
Mandelson said he will do what he can to meet a deadline for a deal , but not at Europe 's expense .
The EU says it has made significant compromises on such issues as farm subsidies to open its market to agricultural imports .
The United States and other countries say the E.U . has not gone far enough .
Cyprus Foreign Minister George Iacovou says his European Union counterparts have agreed on a statement responding to Turkey 's refusal to recognize the internationally backed Cypriot government .
Mr. Iacovou gave no details of the statement .
But he told the Cyprus News Agency the ministers left it up to ambassadors of the 25 EU countries to work out the final text of the document .
Earlier , Turkey 's Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul warned his country will abandon its EU membership bid if the bloc imposes new conditions on Ankara , or tries to offer anything less than full membership .
Turkey has insisted that recognition of the Greek-led Cypriot government depends on a resolution of the three-decade division of Cyprus .
EU ministers have been pressing Turkey to normalize relations with all EU members , including Cyprus .
Turkey is scheduled to start EU membership talks next month .
The U.S. military in Afghanistan says four American soldiers and an Afghan interpreter have been wounded in a roadside explosion in a southeastern part of the country .
A statement said the explosion occurred during a routine patrol near the town of Ghazni Tuesday .
It said initial medical assessments indicated none of the wounds were life-threatening .
On Monday , four American soldiers were wounded when a suicide bomber rammed his explosives-laden car into a U.S. military vehicle near the southern city of Kandahar .
Taleban insurgents claimed responsibility for that attack .
Meanwhile , the military said coalition forces killed two insurgents and detained 12 others after a brief firefight near Kandahar Sunday .
In recent weeks , the guerrillas have stepped up their attacks in southern and eastern Afghanistan , as the country prepares for parliamentary elections expected in September .
A group of Iraqi lawmakers loyal to Shi'ite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has staged a protest against a proposal allowing British troops to remain in the country .
The Sadrist politicians walked out of a session of parliament Saturday , suspending consideration of the proposal .
The deal would allow up to 100 British troops to stay in Iraq beyond a previously approved withdrawal date .
They would be responsible for helping the Iraqi navy protect oil installations off the southern coast .
Moqtada al-Sadr has been a vocal and influential critic of the foreign military presence in Iraq , led by the United States .
U.S. troops withdrew from Iraqi cities at the end of June , transferring security responsibilities to Iraqi forces .
Since then , there have been a several deadly bombings across the country .
A car bomb Saturday in a Shi'ite district near Mosul killed four people and wounded at least 35 others .
Chinese National Basketball Association All-Star center Yao Ming will be on the sidelines for several games because of a sore right big toe .
The Houston Rockets star missed his first game of the season and the third of his NBA career on Sunday .
Team officials say the injury will keep Yao off the court indefinitely .
The 25-year-old center has played in 266 regular-season games since joining the Rockets in 2002 .
He has had a problem with his toe for some time , forcing him to miss two pre-season games .
Yao is the leading vote-getter after the first set of returns for this season 's All-Star game .
He is averaging 19.9 points per game , nine rebounds and 1.36 blocked shots .
Italian police have arrested 40 people linked to Islamic groups in nationwide raids as part of a security crackdown .
Authorities say 28 of the detainees were charged with violating rules on residence permits and 12 with other minor offenses .
But they said none face terrorism charges .
Officials say they also issued 114 expulsion orders as part of the same operation .
The raids focused on Islamic gathering places , including telephone call centers , Internet cafes and offices for sending cash abroad .
Officers also raided 15 apartments , mostly those of Pakistanis , in cooperation with a Belgian police investigation into suspected financing of terrorist groups .
The raids , Thursday and Friday , followed Thursday 's arrest in Britain of 24 people suspected in an alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners over the Atlantic Ocean .
Tens of thousands of anti-government demonstrators have marched on the main government offices in Thailand 's capital , Bangkok .
Some 30,000 protesters marched through the city for two hours , urging the government to dissolve parliament and punish those responsible for last year 's crippling protests .
The earlier demonstrations ousted current Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva 's pro-Thaksin predecessor Somchai Wongsawat .
Before dispersing , the demonstrators promised to make their protest permanent , if their demands are not met within 15 days .
More than 5,000 police were deployed to secure the mass protest , which ran from Saturday afternoon into early Sunday .
Last year , yellow-shirted protesters occupied Government House for about three months , and shut down major airports before a coup ousted the government .
Thailand has been wracked by political unrest for years .
The country is sharply divided between groups who favor and oppose Mr. Thaksin , who was ousted in a coup in 2006 .
In Liberia , supporters of former soccer star George Weah have vowed to continue their protests of the November 8 presidential run-off election , which they say was fraudulent .
The elections commission is expected to announce the final results Tuesday .
Frank Sainworla , radio director of the VOA affiliate , Radio Veritas in the Liberian capital , Monrovia , talked with English to Africa reporter James Butty .
The Hubble Space Telescope is back to work , after a month-long shutdown to fix problems it was having in sending information to Earth .
The U.S. space agency , NASA , said Thursday the telescope 's camera is now working as it was before the problems .
"The agency said it took a photo of a pair of galaxies and that it "" scored a perfect 10 "" ."
The photo shows the ring-shaped galaxies just after they collided .
The Hubble stopped beaming information to Earth in late September when a data unit failed .
The computer glitch forced NASA to postpone a shuttle mission to repair the Hubble .
That mission has been rescheduled for next year .
The Hubble has been orbiting about 600 kilometers above the Earth since 1990 .
The telescope sends images from space back to Earth and has revolutionized understanding of the universe .
Armed militants briefly occupied the West Bank headquarters of the Palestinian Cabinet Thursday , in a protest against the territory 's new Hamas-led government .
Palestinian authorities say about 20 militants from the Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigades forced their way into the cabinet offices Thursday in Ramallah , the administrative headquarters of the Palestinian Authority .
The gunmen stayed for about an hour , before they were persuaded to leave by a police contingent that arrived at the scene .
Al Aqsa Martyrs ' Brigades is a militant faction of Fatah , and the security forces at the scene were also under the control of Fatah leader and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas .
A suicide bomber tried to kill the leader of Iraq 's most powerful Shi'ite political group Monday while the main Sunni party withdrew from the country 's January 30th election .
Abdul Aziz al-Hakim , whose United Iraqi Alliance is expected to dominate the vote , survived the Baghdad attack .
But at least 13 people were killed .
Earlier in the day , the Sunni Iraqi Islamic Party pulled out of the vote because of concerns over violence .
The party says more time is needed to ensure that all Shi'ites and Sunnis participate in the election .
In other election news , a new audiotape purportedly from Osama bin Laden calls for Iraqis to boycott the vote , saying those who take part will be infidels .
The speaker also endorses Abu Musab al-Zarqawi as his deputy in Iraq .
The tape has not been authenticated .
New Mexico governor Bill Richardson , a former presidential candidate , plans to endorse Democratic Senator Barack Obama for president .
Officials with Obama 's campaign tell news agencies that the two men will appear together at a rally Friday in Portland , Oregon .
"In a statement obtained by the Associated Press , Richardson calls Obama a "" one of a kind "" leader who can bring the country together ."
Richardson , the nation 's only Hispanic governor , was energy secretary under former President Bill Clinton and was also an ambassador to the United Nations .
Recent opinion polls indicate that Hispanics have tended to support Obama 's Democratic rival , Senator Hillary Clinton .
Obama currently leads among delegates selected at Democratic primaries and caucuses .
The next major primary is to take place in Pennsylvania next month - April 22 .
Some 6,00,000 revelers are expected to pack Rio de Janeiro over the next few days , as the Brazilian city celebrates the annual Carnival before Lent - the Christian season of repentance .
Rio celebrates Carnival with parades featuring the sensual Brazilian dance known as the samba .
The celebration culminates Sunday and Monday with a giant samba competition in the city 's 60,000-seat Sambadrome stadium .
Outside the Sambadrome , Brazilians and tourists extend the party into the streets , wearing outlandish costumes and masks and eating and drinking to excess .
Similar celebrations take place in New Orleans in the United States , and in many parts of Europe , as people of the Christian faith squeeze in a last few days of indulgence before beginning six weeks of fasting and prayer .
A Palestinian court has sentenced a man to death by hanging for selling West Bank land to Israeli citizens .
The sentence was handed down Tuesday by a court in the West Bank town of Hebron , but it may be unlikely to be carried out .
Prosecutors say the defendant sold to Israelis land that did not belong to him in the village of Beit Omar near Hebron .
The Palestinian Authority considers the sale of Palestinian land to Israelis to be treason .
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas must approve the sentence for it to be carried out .
He has withheld approval in many other death penalty cases .
Several other Palestinians charged with collaborating with Israel are currently on death row .
The Arabic television station al-Jazeera has broadcast a videotape of al-Qaida 's second in command , Ayman al-Zawahri , who vowed to keep fighting the United States unless Washington changes its policies towards the Muslim world .
In excerpts of the video aired Monday , Osama bin Laden 's deputy said al-Qaida was not concerned with the results of the U.S. presidential election .
It was unclear if the video was filmed before or after the November 2 vote .
Just days before the election , al-Jazeera aired a video from Osama bin Laden , who also said the United States must stop threatening Muslims if it wants to avoid another September 11-style attack .
The head of the U.S. central bank signaled Tuesday that interest rates are not likely to be cut anytime soon .
"Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said interest rate policies and efforts to stimulate the faltering U.S. economy are "" well positioned "" to promote growth and stable prices ."
The Fed has been cutting interest rates steadily to boost economic growth .
But officials must balance the need to boost the economy with the concern that cutting interest rates too low could spark inflation .
Inflation concerns have been rising along with the price of oil .
Fuel price hikes are also forcing the biggest U.S. automaker to slash truck production and make more small , fuel-efficient cars .
General Motors Tuesday announced that it will close four North American plants that make trucks .
Russian authorities have detained a man suspected of being involved in the deadly school siege in the southern town of Beslan .
Officials in Moscow Wednesday said the man was arrested by security forces in Ingushetia , near the North Ossetia region where the attack took place .
They say there is also information the man took part in an armed attack targeting police facilities in Ingushetia last June .
Militants attacked one of Beslan 's schools last September , seizing more than 1,000 children , parents and teachers .
The ordeal ended in a chaotic outburst of gunfire and explosions that killed more than 330 people , about half of them children .
Red Cross officials in Kabul say suspects detained by U.S. troops in Afghanistan have been allowed to speak with family members through a new video-teleconference system .
Officials said Monday , that about 60 families have so far taken advantage of the opportunity to speak with prisoners held at the detention center on the U.S. Bagram Air Force Base .
Many families have not spoken to their detained relatives for several years .
Around 600 detainees are being held at the facility .
The International Committee of the Red Cross helped organize the initiative , which is the first of its kind .
Since the 2001 U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan , hundreds of Taliban and al-Qaida suspects have been detained , along with others accused of terrorist activities .
The U.S. Senate is to begin debate Wednesday on one of President Bush 's judicial nominees - setting the stage for a possible showdown on the delaying tactic known as a filibuster .
The leader of the Republican majority in the Senate , Bill Frist , plans to bring to the Senate floor Mr. Bush 's nomination of Priscilla Owen .
A Texas Supreme Court justice , Ms. Owen was one of seven nominees blocked by Democrats during the president 's first term .
If Democrats are successful again , Republicans say they will seek early next week to change Senate rules to limit filibusters , a parliamentary delaying procedure aimed at preventing a vote .
Opposition Democrats say changing Senate rules would drastically curtail the rights of the minority .
Talks seeking a compromise have not been successful .
The largest Sunni bloc in Iraq 's parliament has suspended its participation in the government and is threatening to withdraw completely .
The Accordance Front Wednesday , gave Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki one week to meet its demands to deal with Shi'ite militias and reform the conduct of raids and arrests .
The bloc has been boycotting cabinet meetings since June to protest legal proceedings against Culture Minister Asad Kamal al-Hashimi .
Al-Hashimi has been accused of arranging to have another politician killed .
Last week , the Accordance Front and a group of Shi'ite lawmakers ended a boycott of Iraq 's parliament .
Also Tuesday , Baghdad police say at least six people were killed when U.S. and Iraqi forces clashed with Shi'ite militias in the Sadr City neighborhood .
And the U.S. military says it has detained the administrative head of al-Qaida in Iraq 's Mosul operations during early morning raids .
The world 's largest maker of jetliners , Airbus , says it sold more planes than rival Boeing last year .
Tuesday 's announcement surprised some analysts who thought Boeing might regain the sales lead .
Airbus says it has firm orders for a record 1055 planes , while Boeing has orders for 1002 , which is a record for the company .
Boeing 's orders include more wide-body planes , so at list prices , its orders are worth somewhat more than Airbus .
Orders for jetliners soared in 2005 , as Asian airlines expanded their fleets to meet growing demand , and other airlines sought new , more fuel-efficient planes to cope with high oil costs .
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates is in Pakistan to discuss counter-terrorism efforts and the Taleban insurgency in neighboring Afghanistan .
Gates arrived in the capital , Islamabad , Monday to meet with Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf .
Washington has been putting pressure on General Musharraf to stop Taleban fighters from crossing into Afghanistan .
Gates just finished four days of meetings in Spain and Germany focused largely on the war in Afghanistan .
Pakistan 's foreign minister , Khursheed Kasuri , recently said the government has decided against mining its border with Afghanistan , but still intends to build a fence along parts of it .
On Sunday , the governor of southern Afghanistan 's Helmand province said 700 foreign fighters , including Pakistanis , are in the region to help Taleban insurgents .
A U.N. court begins hearing testimony Monday in the case of a well-known Rwandan musician accused of using his music to spread ethnic hatred during the country 's 1994 genocide .
Simon Bikindi , a musician and former official in Rwanda 's Ministry of Youth and Sports , faces six counts of genocide from the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda .
He has pleaded not guilty to all of the charges from the Tanzania-based court .
Prosecutors say Bikindi composed and recorded songs that encouraged Hutus to kill Tutsis .
They say he consulted with former Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana over song lyrics before passing them on to a privately owned station that broadcast anti-Tutsi propaganda .
Bikindi was arrested in the Netherlands in 2001 .
A police chief in western Iraq says the country began stationing thousands of extra security officers along Iraq 's border with Syria this week in an effort to keep out insurgents .
The chief , Major-General Tariq Youssef , said Friday that Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki ordered the reinforcements , in the wake of August truck bombings in Baghdad that killed more than 100 people .
The Iraqi government has linked the blasts to Baathist sympathizers located in Syria .
Syria has demanded Iraqi authorities provide evidence to back up their allegations .
Iraq has also demanded that Syria hand over two people that Baghdad suspects played a role in the attacks .
Syria has refused , demanding proof .
The bombings have soured relations between Iraq and Syria .
Turkey has been holding talks aimed at defusing tensions between the two countries .
Venezuelan officials say they are investigating allegations that military officers passed state secrets to the United States .
The nation 's Military Attorney General 's Office told El~Universal newspaper Thursday that it has launched a probe of the alleged spies , although it would not say how many suspects there were .
Venezuela 's Vice President Jose Vicente Rangel said Wednesday that several low-level military officers were caught passing information to the U.S. military .
He said some of the suspects have been detained and others have left the country .
The attorney for one of the suspects told reporters a U.S. military attach , identified as John Correa , has been mentioned as a possible link between the Venezuelan officers and the United States .
The U.S. embassy in Caracas had no comment .
An Israeli newspaper reports the filmmaker whose documentary sparked an outrage in Egypt has admitted that he mistakenly identified 250 Palestinian fighters as Egyptian prisoners , who he claimed were killed by Israeli troops during the 1967 Six-Day War .
The Jerusalem Post says the filmmaker Ran Edelist also admitted using incorrect archival footage to illustrate the incident .
Since the documentary was aired last week , Israel repeatedly denied that its soldiers killed Egyptian prisoners during the war .
Israel also agreed to hand over a copy of the film and its transcript to Egypt .
However , Egypt asked for an investigation .
And , an Egyptian parliamentary committee has threatened to review economic relations and agreements with Israel if the incident is not investigated .
Because of rising tensions over the film , Israeli Cabinet Minister Benjamin Ben-Eliezer earlier this week postponed a scheduled visit to Egypt .
Ben-Eliezer commanded the military unit at the center of the controversy .
U.S. Olympic Committee chairman Peter Ueberroth is calling on the U.S. government to reverse a decision to deny Cuba 's national baseball team permission to play in the United States .
Last week , the Treasury Department denied a permit for Cuba to play in the inaugural 16-team World Baseball Classic in March .
Ueberroth says the decision will damage American efforts to host the Olympics in the future .
Olympic host countries must guarantee all nations can participate .
Cuba had been set to play against Puerto Rico , Panama and the Netherlands in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico in the first round .
A permit from the Treasury Department 's Office of Foreign Assets Control is necessary because of U.S. laws governing certain commercial transactions with the communist island nation .
Iraqi officials say a senior Interior Ministry official has been shot and killed in Baghdad .
The assassination occurred Tuesday .
Reuters news agency says the group led by Jordanian terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed responsibility for the killing .
Guerrillas loyal to Zaraqawi 's group also took responsibility for some of the attacks Monday in Iraq that left 25 people dead .
A suicide attack killed 15 people north of Baghdad while several attacks on Iraqi police and soldiers in Baquba killed 10 people .
India 's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has invited Kashmir 's pro-independence leader , Yasin Malik , for talks on ending the decades-old dispute over the Himalayan territory .
An adviser to Mr. Singh , Sanjaya Baru , told reporters the talks are scheduled to be held in New Delhi on February 17 .
Malik is the chief of the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front .
He told a Pakistani TV channel , Geo TV , that he has convened a meeting of the working committee of his group on February 15th to decide on how to respond to the invitation .
The front is one of the several Kashmiri separatist groups that are demanding independence for Kashmir .
Other groups are demanding a merger with Pakistan .
Warlords in Somalia 's capital , Mogadishu , have begun surrendering their weapons , in an effort to restore stability in the city and ease the return of the country 's transitional government , currently in exile in Kenya .
Hundreds of warlords who spent more than a decade fighting each other are disarming in camps outside Mogadishu .
The African Union and the United States have said such a move is essential to restoring stability and eventually paving the way for the return of Somalia 's first central government in 14 years .
Last week , Somali lawmakers were locked in a dispute over moving to Mogadishu .
Some lawmakers feel the capital city is still too unsafe , and they want to move to other , less violent parts of Somalia or stay in Nairobi .
Italian labor unions have agreed not to strike during next month 's Winter Olympic Games in Turin , Italy .
The unions and the Italian government signed a deal Wednesday that averted work stoppages between January 31 and March 23 .
The Turin Olympics run from February 10 to the 26 .
Flight attendants with Alitalia airlines had announced they planned a 24-hour strike February 10 , the day of the opening ceremonies .
Pilots had threatened a four-hour walkout February 9 .
The truce will also ban protests in telecommunications and railways industries .
Local protests outside Turin that have no impact on the Olympics will be allowed .
Last season , a small Milan television worker 's union strike led to the cancellation of the giant slalom at the World Alpine skiing championships in Bormio .
Orchid growers are trying to grab a bigger share of the global trade in flowers , which accounts for several billion dollars each year .
Growers from Latin America and Asia are scrambling to market unique plants and develop brand new varieties to meet the growing demand .
VOA 's Brian Wagner has this report from Miami .
Colombia 's main rebel group has insisted the government pull troops out of two mountain towns before it will take part in face-to-face meetings .
The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , or FARC , issued a statement to President Alvaro Uribe , calling on the government to pull troops out of two towns in the Valle del Cauca region .
Mr. Uribe has rejected the request .
Last month , the Colombian government offered to to meet with the FARC at a time and a place of their choosing to discuss a possible prisoner swap .
The leftist rebel group is said to be holding 59 hostages , including three Americans .
FARC , along with a smaller rebel group and rightist paramilitaries , is locked in a long-running war with the government that kills thousands of people each year .
Exit polls in Ecuador indicate voters have overwhelmingly approved President Rafael Correa 's proposal to establish an assembly to rewrite the country 's constitution .
The Cedatos-Gallup poll says 78 percent of voters supported the referendum that Mr. Correa says will help end government corruption and inefficiency .
However , critics accuse the leftist president of trying to centralize power around himself by stripping authority from the country 's unpopular congress .
Mr. Correa 's plans to redefine the government are similar to what his ally , Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez , has done in his country .
Mr. Correa , who became president in January , had threatened to resign if the proposal was not approved .
Earlier this year , the nation 's electoral court fired 57 opposition lawmakers who attempted to block the referendum .
Japanese officials have unveiled plans to cope with a possible bird flu epidemic .
The action plan released by the Japanese health ministry Monday anticipates that a quarter of the population , some 32 million people , could become infected and that as many as 6,40,000 people could die .
The Japanese plan would shut down schools , ban large gatherings and declare a state of emergency in the case of a severe flu epidemic .
The government will also increase stockpiles of the anti-viral drug Tamiflu .
Japan has reported no human deaths from bird flu so far .
An Australian and a Palestinian have been kidnapped at gunpoint in Gaza City and those claiming responsibility say the abduction is in response to Thursday 's kidnapping of a Palestinian intelligence officer .
Masked gunmen forced the two victims into a vehicle outside a beachfront hotel Friday .
Relatives of the intelligence service officer , Jihad Abed , who was abducted the day before in Gaza , are claiming responsibility for holding the Australian and Palestinian .
The officer 's abduction is being blamed on the Jenin Martyrs Brigades militant group .
There has been no response from the group .
The officer 's family says Friday 's kidnapping was because of the failure of Palestinian authorities to secure the officer 's release , and a relative says the Australian and Palestinian will be freed in exchange for the release of the officer .
Cuba is criticizing recent efforts by U.S.-funded TV Marti to bring its anti-Castro programming to Cuban viewers .
Cuba 's Communist Party newspaper Granma , in an article published Tuesday , said Cuban authorities will take the measures to block the TV Marti programming broadcast on a Miami local television station .
The station , WPMF-TV , can be received by Cubans with satellite dishes , although such devices are illegal in Cuba .
Radio and TV Marti announced in December that it would pay to have its programming broadcast on Spanish-language stations in Miami that are received by illegal satellite dishes in Cuba .
Nepali authorities say at least six Maoist rebels were killed and several soldiers were missing following a fierce gunbattle in eastern Nepal .
Officials say the fighting erupted Wednesday , when rebels ambushed a security patrol in a rural area of Ilam , about 680 kilometers east of Kathmandu .
The rebels say they have killed 20 soldiers .
But officials say they could not confirm if the army suffered any casualties .
Earlier this week , the Nepali army had warned that the Maoists could be planning major attacks to mark next month 's ninth anniversary of the start of their revolt .
The rebels , who want to establish a communist republic in the world 's only Hindu kingdom , last week rejected a government deadline to resume peace talks .
The government is pushing ahead with plans for long-delayed elections later this year .
Officials say at least 25 other al-Qaida-linked fighters were wounded during intense strikes in the villages of Loi Sam , Rashakai and Tang Khata in the Bajaur tribal region .
Pakistan says more than 100 people , most of them militants , have been killed in a renewed military offensive in the northwest over the past few days .
Pakistani officials say Pakistani security forces , backed by helicopter gunships and artillery , killed 16 suspected militants Sunday near the Afghan border .
Last month , Pakistan 's Interior Ministry chief , Rehman Malik , said the military would suspend offensives against militants in Bajaur during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan , but reserved the right to attack if provoked .
Pakistan has committed itself to fighting Islamic militancy in its tribal areas , while discouraging the United States from undertaking military operations on its territory .
Three New Orleans police officers have been charged in the beating of a 64-year-old man and the assaulting of a television news producer with a crew that videotaped the incident .
The video shows two uniformed officers and two other men repeatedly punching Robert Davis in the face and body as he was being arrested Saturday night for public drunkenness in the southern U.S. city .
The Associated Press cameraman then took pictures of a third officer manhandling the producer who was holding up his credentials to the officer .
Other ( CNN ) video shows Mr. Davis in handcuffs lying on the ground in a pool of blood with his face badly beaten .
The three officers have been suspended and charged with battery .
The New Orleans police department has come under heavy scrutiny for their response to Hurricane Katrina .
Many officers have been accused of deserting their posts or joining in the looting that broke out .
Muslims in northwestern Pakistan continue to protest against the controversial Prophet Muhammad cartoons as the EU foreign policy chief arrives in Saudi Arabia , saying Europe respects Islam .
The protest in Pakistan began Monday morning when students marched to different universities in the city of Peshawar , urging people to join the demonstration .
They pelted offices and shops with stones as they marched .
Police fired tear gas and used batons to disperse the protesters when they tried to march on the provincial governor 's residence .
In Jeddah , EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said Europe had never wanted to offend the feelings of Muslims and never will .
Solana made the remarks as he met with the head of the 57-member Organization of the Islamic Conference , Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu .
The unrest was sparked by cartoons of the prophet published initially by a Danish newspaper last September .
Finnish authorities say Russian military aircraft have repeatedly violated Finland 's airspace in recent months despite the Nordic country 's demands for an end to such actions .
The Foreign Ministry late Thursday said the flights were either on their way to Russia 's Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad or returning to Russia when they entered Finnish airspace over the Gulf of Finland .
Russia 's Interfax news Agency quotes defense ministry officials as denying any violations .
Finnish officials say Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen will raise the issue during his visit to Moscow next month .
Kaliningrad is a Russian Baltic enclave cut off from the rest of Russia by Belarus , Lithuania and Poland .
Nigeria 's main militant group said one of its commanders and 62 of his followers were not captured by the military , but rather turned themselves in for a promised cash reward .
The military had said it arrested the militants Friday in southern Nigeria 's Rivers State .
On Saturday , it paraded the men in front of the media at an air force base in the southern oil hub of Port Harcourt .
"In a statement Monday , the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta ( MEND ) refuted the government 's account of the arrests , saying its fighters "" handed themselves over "" with "" no exchange of gunfire . """
Nigerian authorities say the militants kidnapped 19 oil and construction workers in the Niger Delta region .
The hostages , who were freed last week , included seven foreigners .
The group has threatened more attacks on oil facilities .
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari says coalition forces will next hand over control of southern Maysan province to Iraqi troops .
Zebari was speaking in London Tuesday , after talks with British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett .
Zebari did not say when he expects the transfer to take place .
On Monday , Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki confirmed that British , Australian and Japanese troops will soon turn over security responsibility to Iraqi forces in southern Muthana province .
Beckett would not say whether the transfer of responsibility will mean that British forces will return home or be redeployed elsewhere in Iraq .
Britain has about 7,200 troops in southern Iraq based around the city of Basra .
The leader of opposition Democrats in the U.S. Senate says the Bush administration needs to explain what role it had in the exposure of a covert CIA officer .
"Interviewed Sunday on the ABC television program "" This Week , "" Senator Harry Reid said President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney "" come clean with the American public . """
Mr. Reid also said the president should pledge not to pardon Mr. Cheney 's former chief of staff Lewis Libby if he is convicted .
Mr. Libby resigned Friday after being indicted on five charges in connection with statements he made to investigators probing the CIA leak .
Both the president and Mr. Cheney have refused to comment on the probe .
Senator Reid also called for the resignation of Mr. Bush 's chief adviser , Karl Rove .
Mr. Rove has not been charged with a crime in the probe but reportedly remains under investigation .
Political leaders and rebels in Ivory Coast say they accept the choice of economist Charles Konan Banny to be the nation 's transitional prime minister .
A rebel spokesman told VOA that he hopes the international community will give Mr. Banny the power to do his job .
A United Nations resolution gives the new prime minister expanded authority to carry out rebel disarmament and electoral reforms , with the goal of holding new elections by next October .
African mediators appointed Mr. Banny on Sunday , ending a deadlock between President Laurent Gbagbo , opposition leaders and the rebels .
Mr. Banny , the governor of West Africa 's central bank , is expected to travel from Dakar , Senegal , to Abijan Monday .
He had been going to run for president himself , but in his new position , he is barred from seeking the office .
Tsunami rescue workers in India 's Andaman archipelago say they have found nine survivors on a remote island , 38 days after large waves devastated villages in the region .
Police say the group of five men , two women and two teenagers was found wandering in a remote part of Campbell Bay island .
Police say the Nicobari tribespeople had fled to a hill when the tsunami flooded the island .
The emaciated survivors largely lived off coconuts until they were rescued Wednesday .
They are the latest survivors discovered from the disaster that officials estimate killed more than 1,70,000 people , mostly in Indonesia and Sri Lanka .
Tens of thousands of people are still listed as missing .
An Afghan official says Taleban militants have captured a district in southern Kandahar province after several days of fierce fighting .
Kandahar 's provincial police chief , Esmatullah Alizai , Tuesday said the Taleban took control of Mian Neshin district late Monday .
Officials said Afghan forces made a tactical decision to withdraw from clashes with militants .
They added that authorities are planning an operation to recapture the district .
Elsewhere , in nearby Uruzgan province , fighting continues Tuesday between NATO forces and Taleban militants .
Officials say about 60 Taleban insurgents have been killed in the past three days of fighting in the district of Chora .
Afghan authorities say civilians were also killed , but casualty figures could not be verified .
Authorities in Iraq say at least 12 people were killed in a series of attacks Wednesday , mainly in and around the northern city of Mosul .
Iraqi officials say a car bomb exploded near a Shi'ite mosque on the outskirts of Mosul , killing nine people and wounding others .
A second blast in a nearby village also caused injuries .
At least 22 people were wounded in the two explosions .
And police in central Mosul say at least seven people were wounded Wednesday when a gunman threw an explosive device at a police patrol .
Mosul has been the scene of a number of deadly attacks since U.S. combat troops formally withdrew from the city last week .
In other violence , Iraqi police and witnesses say at least three people have been killed and 18 wounded in a bombing south of Baghdad .
Authorities say the blast in the town of Musayyib appeared to target a wedding party .
Suicide car bombers carried out two deadly attacks in Baghdad Thursday , killing 11 people as the Iraqi president met with Britain 's prime minister in London ahead of Iraq 's constitutional referendum .
An American soldier also was killed Thursday in combat operations in northern Baghdad .
Fear of spiraling violence before next week 's referendum was one of the topics President Jalal Talabani and Prime Minister Tony Blair were expected to discuss .
At a joint news conference after their meeting , Mr. Talabani said the presence of American and British troops in Iraq is absolutely vital , and that no timetable for their departure has been set .
For his part , Mr. Blair said new , more dangerous explosives are being used in Iraq , and there are unproven suspicions they are coming from Iran or its Lebanese ally , Hezbollah .
Those charges were quickly denied by Iranian and Hezbollah officials .
Insurgents have carried out a series of attacks across Iraq , killing at least 25 people and wounding more than 93 others .
Spain 's interior minister says police confiscated documents indicating potential terrorism targets from two suspected members of the Basque separatist group ETA arrested in France Thursday .
Jose Antonio Alonso told reporters the documents included information about four Madrid sports complexes the city has listed in its bid for the 2012 Olympics .
The other two sites were water desalinization plants in southern Spain .
Mr. Alonso Thursday identified one of the men arrested near the southern French city of Toulouse as Pedro Esquisabel Urtuzaga , the chief of ETA international operations .
ETA has been blamed for the deaths of more than 800 people since the late 1960s , when it launched its terrorist campaign for creation of an independent Basque state in southwestern France and northern Spain .
The Palestinian militant group Hamas has canceled plans for its anniversary rally over fears of an Israeli attack .
Thousands of Hamas supporters had been expected to join the rally Friday to mark the 17th anniversary of the founding of the movement .
A Hamas spokesman Mushir al-Masri said the rally at a Gaza City sports stadium has been canceled because of renewed concern about the safety of Hamas leaders - particularly after Sunday 's attack on an Israeli military post in Gaza that killed five soldiers .
Israel has assassinated Hamas founder and his successor in separate air strikes earlier this year .
Israel also killed more than a dozen Hamas fighters when it bombed a soccer field where the militants were training .
Honduran authorities have arrested two gang members in the death of an American agent who was fatally shot while on vacation in Tegucigalpa .
Officials say the suspects were arrested Saturday in connection with the death of Timothy Markey , an agent with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration .
Authorities say Mr. Markey was visiting a cathedral in the capital city Friday when he was approached and shot in the leg .
Mr. Markey was rushed to a hospital , where he was later pronounced dead .
Officials say the fatal incident appears to have been an attempted robbery .
A DEA statement says the 44-year-old agent had worked for the administration since 1989 , and was assigned to a unit in the southern U.S. state of Texas .
The White House is urging the United Nations Security Council to keep pressure on Syria , after a report further implicated senior Syrian officials in the murder of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri .
Spokesman Scott McClellan said Tuesday that the United States supports U.N. investigator Detlev Mehlis ' request to extend the murder investigation for another six months .
Mr. Mehlis requested the extension Monday , saying his team had found new evidence implicating Syria in the February assassination .
The Security Council is due to discuss Mr. Mehlis ' report today .
Meanwhile , in Beirut , Lebanese mourned the killing Monday of prominent anti-Syrian legislator and newspaper publisher Gibran Tueni in a car bomb blast .
Many schools and businesses were closed , as Mr. Tueni 's family received condolences at a Greek Orthodox church in East Beirut .
A coalition of anti-Syrian groups has called for a general strike Wednesday to coincide with his funeral .
Diplomats in Brussels say the foreign ministers of Britain , France and Germany will meet Iran 's top nuclear official Monday to discuss a long-term nuclear cooperation agreement .
The European Union 's foreign policy chief , Javier Solana , also will attend the negotiations .
The Europeans are expected to offer Iran a package of economic and political incentives in exchange for its permanently suspending work on uranium enrichment .
Last month , Iran agreed to a temporary suspension in an effort to avoid being brought before the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The European Union also is expected to formally agree to resume stalled trade talks with Iran on an agreement that could include European support for Iran 's membership in the World Trade Organization .
The United States has previously blocked Iran 's WTO entry bids .
GOODY PRODUCTS Inc. cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share .
The reduced dividend is payable Jan. 2 to stock of record Dec. 15 .
The Kearny , N.J.-based maker of hair accessories and other cosmetic products said it cut the dividend due to its third-quarter loss of $ 9,92,000 , or 15 cents a share .
In the year-ago quarter , the company reported net income of $ 1.9 million , or 29 cents a share .
The company also adopted an anti-takeover plan .
Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830 ; it was occupied by Germany during World Wars I and II .
The country prospered in the past half century as a modern , technologically advanced European state and member of NATO and the EU .
Tensions between the Dutch-speaking Flemings of the north and the French-speaking Walloons of the south have led in recent years to constitutional amendments granting these regions formal recognition and autonomy .
Turkmenistan is largely a desert country with intensive agriculture in irrigated oases and sizeable gas and oil resources .
The two largest crops are cotton , most of which is produced for export , and wheat , which is domestically consumed .
Although agriculture accounts for roughly 10 % of GDP , it continues to employ nearly half of the country 's workforce .
With an authoritarian ex-Communist regime in power and a tribally based social structure , Turkmenistan has taken a cautious approach to economic reform , hoping to use gas and cotton export revenues to sustain its inefficient economy .
Privatization goals remain limited .
From 1998 - 2005 , Turkmenistan suffered from the continued lack of adequate export routes for natural gas and from obligations on extensive short-term external debt .
At the same time , however , total exports rose by an average of roughly 15 % per year from 2003 - 8 , largely because of higher international oil and gas prices .
New pipelines to China and Iran , that began operation in early 2010 , have given Turkmenistan additional export routes for its gas , although these new routes have not offset the sharp drop in export revenue since early 2009 from decreased gas exports to Russia .
Overall prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread internal poverty , endemic corruption , a poor educational system , government misuse of oil and gas revenues , and Ashgabat 's reluctance to adopt market-oriented reforms .
In the past , Turkmenistan 's economic statistics were state secrets .
The new government has established a State Agency for Statistics , but GDP numbers and other figures are subject to wide margins of error .
In particular , the rate of GDP growth is uncertain .
Since his election , President BERDIMUHAMEDOW unified the country 's dual currency exchange rate , ordered the redenomination of the manat , reduced state subsidies for gasoline , and initiated development of a special tourism zone on the Caspian Sea .
Although foreign investment is encouraged , numerous bureaucratic obstacles impede international business activity .
Hungary became a Christian kingdom in A.D. 1000 and for many centuries served as a bulwark against Ottoman Turkish expansion in Europe .
The kingdom eventually became part of the polyglot Austro-Hungarian Empire , which collapsed during World War I .
The country fell under Communist rule following World War II .
In 1956 , a revolt and an announced withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact were met with a massive military intervention by Moscow .
"Under the leadership of Janos KADAR in 1968 , Hungary began liberalizing its economy , introducing so-called "" Goulash Communism . """
Hungary held its first multiparty elections in 1990 and initiated a free market economy .
It joined NATO in 1999 and the EU five years later .
In 2011 , Hungary assumed the six-month rotating presidency of the EU for the first time .
A FROG once upon a time came forth from his home in the marsh and proclaimed to all the beasts that he was a learned physician , skilled in the use of drugs and able to heal all diseases .
"A Fox asked him , "" How can you pretend to prescribe for others , when you are unable to heal your own lame gait and wrinkled skin ? '"
A SWALLOW who had built her nest in a court of justice reared a fine family of young birds .
One day a Snake came out of a chink in the wall and was about to eat them .
The Just Judge at once issued an injunction , and making an order for their removal to his own house , ate them himself .
A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts .
He grasped as many as he could possibly hold , but when he tried to pull out his hand , he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the pitcher .
Unwilling to lose his filberts , and yet unable to withdraw his hand , he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment .
"A bystander said to him , "" Be satisfied with half the quantity , and you will readily draw out your hand . """
Do not attempt too much at once .
Kidnappers in Haiti have released a group of children they abducted from a school bus early Thursday .
Police said Friday the kidnappers freed the children unharmed later Thursday .
Local media report the abductors were paid an unspecified ransom .
But the Associated Press quotes a police commissioner as denying any ransom was paid .
Police also said they are working to secure the release of an American missionary kidnapped Thursday in a separate incident .
Neither case was considered to be politically motivated .
The United States is giving $ 750 million to Pakistan to help develop its remote tribal region .
The U.S. Agency for International Development says the money - to be allocated over five years - will fund projects in Pakistan 's Federally Administered Tribal Areas ( FATAs ) , which border Afghanistan .
The agency says the projects include efforts to strengthen livelihoods , expand economic opportunities and improve education and healthcare .
A $ 43 million contract has been awarded by the agency to Development Alternatives , Incorporated .
The company will help the Pakistani government and non-governmental organizations to plan , implement and monitor a wide range of development programs .
The Federally Administered Tribal Areas are governed by the Pakistani central government , but Pashtun tribal elders run the day to day affairs of the region .
Officials in northwest Pakistan say at least 12 people were killed Sunday when a minibus ran off a mountainous road and plunged into a ravine .
At least eight others were injured in the crash , which occurred near the town of Malakand , northwest of Islamabad .
Police say the vehicle was headed to the town of Chitral from the provincial capital , Peshawar , when the driver lost control of the vehicle .
It is unclear how many people were traveling on the bus at the time of the accident .
Fatal road accidents are common in Pakistan , due mainly to poorly maintained roads and disregard for traffic rules .
Russian President Dmitri Medvedev has sent a new nuclear arms reduction treaty with the United States to parliament for ratification .
Mr. Medvedev and U.S. President Barack Obama signed the treaty last month in the Czech capital , Prague .
President Obama submitted the treaty to the U.S. Senate for approval earlier this month .
Mr. Medvedev urged Russian lawmakers Friday to synchronize their ratification process with the Senate .
The new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty cuts U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals by 30 percent , leaving each side with about 1,500 strategic nuclear weapons .
The agreement replaces the 1991 START treaty .
Both the U.S. Senate and Russia 's parliament must ratify the treaty before it can take effect .
"President Obama has called the treaty "" an important milestone "" for nuclear security and non-proliferation ."
A British judge has dropped charges against seven soldiers accused of beating an Iraqi teenager to death in 2003 .
The judge ruled Thursday there was not enough evidence against the soldiers .
They had faced a court-martial in connection with the death of 18-year-old Nadhem Abdullah during a skirmish in southern Iraq .
Australia 's cricket team has scored 337-9 at stumps on the first day of its first test against India in Melbourne .
Matthew Hayden scored his 28th test century in the match , making 124 before being caught out by Sourav Ganguly .
The century was Hayden 's 19th in Australia , surpassing countrymen Donald Bradman and Ricky Ponting , who have 18 each .
But India 's bowlers put a damper on Australia 's lineup with Anil Kumble May-84 .
Zaheer Khan was Mar-93 for India .
The test is being played on the Melbourne Cricket Ground in front of more than 65,000 fans .
Police say that 110 persons were ejected from the grounds Wednesday , most for throwing objects in the air .
Twelve people were arrested .
A leading U.S. newspaper reports that the Central Intelligence Agency has set up secret joint anti-terrorist centers in more than 20 nations .
The Washington Post Friday says the centers may act on tips provided by the CIA , but local agents are used to capture suspected terrorists .
The newspaper based its report on interviews with current and former U.S. and foreign officials who declined to be named .
The Post says the secret program is legal and received a huge boost after the September 2001 terrorist attacks .
It says increased funding has allowed the CIA to entice a wide variety of countries to work with it , including Indonesia , Uzbekistan and France .
The newspaper reports the centers are separate from the secret CIA prisons the Post says exist in several countries .
The CIA had no immediate comment on the report .
The presidential election in Lebanon has been postponed until Friday to give rival political factions more time to agree on a candidate .
Parliament speaker Nabih Berri announced the delay in a statement , saying the balloting in parliament was moved from Wednesday to Friday .
The delay is the fourth time voting has been postponed .
The pro-Western governing coalition and the Hezbollah-led opposition are at odds over who will succeed pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud , whose term ends Friday night .
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner and Arab League chief Amr Moussa are in Lebanon holding talks with both sides .
Lebanon 's government has threatened to use its simple parliamentary majority to elect one of its own members if the factions do not agree on a candidate .
United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon visited Lebanon last week and called on leaders there to set aside their differences and elect a new president .
Afghan security officials say Taliban militants have hanged five policeman in southern Afghanistan as a public warning to others .
The Uruzgan province police chief , Juma Gul Himat , describing the incident Sunday , said the five policemen had been abducted two months ago and were mutilated before being killed and their bodies hung from trees .
In other developments , a provincial police official , Sayed Agha Saqeb says NATO-led forces killed at least 20 Taliban militants in fighting that began Saturday west of Kandahar .
A Taliban spokesman , Yusuf Ahmadi said the Kandahar operation killed only four insurgents , and left many civilians dead .
Recent violence also claimed the lives of two Canadian soldiers and their interpreter .
Palestinian activists tore down a section of the Israeli-built barrier that cordons off the West Bank , in a protest that coincides with the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall .
Rock-throwing demonstrators cheered Monday as they used a truck to pull down a segment of the wall .
Israeli troops used tear gas to disperse the protesters .
The structure is a combination of concrete barriers , fencing and barbed wire that will measure about 700 kilometers long once construction is finished .
The United Nations estimates the barrier is more than 60 percent complete .
Israel says it needs the barrier for security , but Palestinians view it as a land-grab .
The wall cuts into territory Palestinians want for a future state , putting about 10 percent of the West Bank on the Israeli side of the barrier .
Turkish troops have killed three suspected Kurdish rebels during a military offensive in southeastern Turkey .
Monday 's fighting in Tunceli province occurred as more than 5,000 Turkish troops swept through the mountainous region searching for members of the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party , known as the PKK .
Elsewhere in the region , Turkey says rebels kidnapped a policeman after stopping his car at a roadblock in an area close to the borders of Iraq and Syria .
Officials say troops are looking for the officer .
The violence comes days after the Kurdish rebels ended a 60-day unilateral ceasefire with Turkey .
The rebels accuse the Ankara government of ignoring the truce and continuing military operations against rebel fighters .
Tibet 's exiled spiritual leader , the Dalai Lama , has been admitted to a hospital in India Thursday after complaining of abdominal pains .
His personal secretary said there is no major cause for concern .
"Doctors at the hospital where he was admitted in Mumbai tell Reuters news agency that he is "" cheerful . """
On Thursday , the Dalai Lama canceled two upcoming foreign trips to undergo medical tests , after experiencing discomfort during recent travels .
His office said the 73-year-old Buddhist leader 's doctors had diagnosed him with exhaustion and recommended that he complete some medical tests .
The Dalai Lama spends several months a year traveling to promote Tibetan causes .
He recently returned to India after a visit to France .
Some African heads of state plan to push for a united continent during an African Union summit that begins Sunday in the Ghanaian capital of Accra .
The three-day summit agenda is almost entirely dedicated to the idea of a United States of Africa .
Proponents of the plan argue that a united federation of African nations could exercise more influence and better address problems facing the world 's poorest continent .
Although several countries support the idea of a united continent , some regional powers like South Africa favor a more gradual consolidation of regional economic groups .
Leaders at the summit will also discuss the conflicts in Darfur and Zimbabwe .
The idea of a united Africa was conceived four decades ago by Ghana 's first president , Kwame Nkrumah .
Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has renewed Tokyo 's call for a permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council .
Mr. Koizumi , fresh from a landslide election win , addressed world leaders at the United Nations summit in New York on Thursday .
"He said Security Council reform is a "" just cause "" for the international community ."
He stressed Japan 's record of pacifism since the end of World War II .
A proposal by the so-called Group of Four nations - Brazil , India , Germany and Japan - calls for increasing the Security Council to 25 with six new permanent members .
But the proposal is opposed by China and the United States and has failed to gain support among other council members .
Europe 's debt crisis got worse Tuesday as a rating agency slashed the credit ratings for the Greek and Portuguese governments .
"Standard and Poor 's cut Greek long-term government bonds three levels to speculative or "" junk "" status because of the "" political , economic and budgetary challenges "" facing Athens ."
The same agency downgraded Portugal 's sovereign debt by two notches .
S & P said it has growing concerns about the ability of the Greek and Portuguese governments to repay debts .
The move followed weeks of talks among European nations and the International Monetary Fund about an aid package worth as much as $ 60 billion for Greece .
The lower rating means lenders will demand higher interest rates , raising borrowing costs at a time when Greece and Portugal are already struggling with financial issues .
The downgrades prompted Greek and Portuguese stocks to fall sharply in Tuesday 's trading .
"China says it is "" sincere "" about establishing diplomatic relations with the Vatican , but has repeated a long-standing requirement that the Holy See acknowledge Taiwan as part of China ."
A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman , Kong Quan , Tuesday expressed hope that under the new pope , the Vatican will create favorable conditions for establishing relations .
"But he said the Vatican must recognize Taiwan as an "" inseparable part of China . """
Pope Benedict last week invited countries without diplomatic relations with the Vatican to establish ties soon .
He did not name the countries , but China , Saudi Arabia and Vietnam are among the nations that do not have diplomatic ties with the Vatican .
China broke relations with the Vatican after the communists took power more than 50 years ago .
The Vatican , meanwhile , has maintained full diplomatic relations with Taiwan .
Al Jazeera , the Arabic-language television news network , says a telephone caller threatened to blow up the building housing its Beirut bureau because of the network 's coverage of Saturday 's car bomb explosion in Beirut .
Other news organizations also occupy office space in the same building .
Al Jazeera says all news agencies in the building continued normal operations .
Al Jazeera 's coverage of the bombing contained an interview with Lebanese opposition leader Walid Jumblatt .
Mr. Jumblatt alleged that three bombings in Beirut last week were the work of Syrian-backed Lebanese security agents .
According to Al Jazeera 's website , Mr. Jumblatt said the agents are trying to defend Lebanon 's pro-Syria leadership .
Lebanon 's opposition has also accused Syria of involvement in the assassination of former prime minister Rafik al-Hariri .
Lynndie England arrives for a pretrial hearing at Fort Hood , Texas One of the U.S. Army soldiers at the center of the Iraqi prisoner abuse scandal is scheduled to appear in a U.S. military court in Texas , Thursday for a pre-trial hearing and arraignment .
Private First Class Lynndie England is charged with maltreatment , conspiracy to maltreat detainees , and committing an indecent act .
She faces up to 11 years in prison .
In May , Private England 's case ended in a mistrial when the presiding judge threw out her guilty plea .
The judge said testimony from a key witness indicated that Private England did not know her actions were a crime when she committed them .
To plead guilty under U.S. military law , a defendant must know they were committing a crime .
Photos of Private England mistreating Iraqi detainees at the Abu Ghraib prison sparked international outrage last year .
A U.N. spokeswoman says the United Nations Human Rights Council will hold a special meeting later this week to examine Israel 's military offensive in Lebanon .
The spokeswoman said Tuesday Tunisia requested the meeting on behalf of the 57-member Organization of the Islamic Conference .
"The Islamic countries called on the council to take action on what they called "" gross violations of human rights by Israel in Lebanon . """
China , Russia and South Africa also signed the request .
In a similar session in July , the council voted 29 to 11 to condemn Israel 's military operations in the Gaza Strip .
Israel 's ambassador rejected the July resolution and accused the council of bias against the Jewish state .
Russia and France are calling on Iran to stop all uranium enrichment .
The two countries issued their statement Tuesday during a visit to Moscow by French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin .
Iran resumed small-scale uranium enrichment Monday -- an initial step in the process of producing fuel for nuclear reactors or atomic weapons .
Iran had threatened to resume enrichment after the International Atomic Energy Agency referred it this month to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
China , another permanent member of the U.N. Security Council , called Tuesday for continued diplomatic efforts to ease growing tensions over Iran 's nuclear program .
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , who met with President Bush in Washington Monday , said he hopes there will be no steps to escalate the situation .
Iran denies Western charges that it is trying to build atomic weapons .
Ukraine 's president , Viktor Yushchenko , is to address a joint meeting of the U.S. Congress next week .
Senate Majority leader Bill Frist and House Speaker Dennis Hastert say they look forward to hearing from the Ukrainian leader April 6 .
In a statement , the lawmakers said Mr. Yushchenko 's election last year is inspiring the spread of democracy throughout the world .
Mr. Yushchenko meets President Bush at the White House Monday .
Last year 's presidential election in Ukraine was a bitter contest marred by controversy .
Mr. Yushchenko defeated his rival Viktor Yanukovych in a repeat election held after Ukraine 's Supreme Court threw out the results of a previous vote because of widespread fraud .
U.S. military officials in Iraq say American and Iraqi forces have launched operations against insurgents in the northern city of Mosul .
Spokeswoman Captain Angela Bowman told reporters in Iraq 's third largest city that forces are moving in Tuesday to secure police stations hit hard by insurgents in recent days .
The most intense fighting in Iraq has been shifting from Fallujah to Mosul and other areas .
On Monday , U.S. Marine officials said coalition forces were now able to move throughout Fallujah after a week of heavy battles to oust entrenched militants , but were still finding pockets of resistance .
Elsewhere , officials say insurgents killed an American soldier in centraql Iraq , near Balad .
Kuwait authorities say a policeman , a suspected militant and a Bahraini man have been killed in a shootout near Kuwait City .
The Interior Ministry said four security officers and a second gunman were wounded in the firefight , which erupted when police stormed a suspected militant hideout .
At least one other suspect was taken into custody .
The police raid came after U.S. and Kuwaiti authorities issued statements warning of the likelihood of more attacks against Western targets in the emirate .
It was the third such clash in Kuwait this month .
Two security officers and two gunmen were killed in the earlier violence .
Pakistan and India have begun two days of talks in Islamabad on a proposed multi-billion dollar pipeline that would carry gas from Iran into India through Pakistan .
It is the first meeting between India 's Oil Minister Mani Shankar Aiyar and his Pakistani counterpart , Amanullah Khan Jadoon , on the 2,700 kilometer project .
Pakistan 's foreign ministry spokesman said recently the bilateral talks will be followed later this year by three-way discussions involving Iranian officials .
Washington opposes the project over concerns about Iran 's nuclear program .
But Mr. Aiyar dismissed U.S. opposition , saying India will not be pressured by any country .
Burma has released thousands of prisoners to mark the 57th anniversary of the country 's independence from Britain .
A government-run newspaper , New Light of Myanmar , says 5,588 prisoners have been freed on humanitarian grounds to coincide with the holiday .
Monday 's gesture differs from three previous mass releases , which were conducted because of what the junta described as irregularities in arrests by the now dismantled National Intelligence bureau .
The bureau 's former chief , former prime minister Khin Nyunt , has been placed under house arrest on accusations of corruption .
The government has released nearly 20,000 prisoners since early November .
Although about 50 dissidents were freed in prior releases , there was no indication that any political prisoners were let go this time .
Human Rights Watch says a climate of fear threatens the Democratic Republic of Congo 's first elections in 40 years .
The New York-based rights group says there was an increase in the number of attacks and detentions of journalists , human rights defenders and members of the political opposition in April and May .
Human Rights Watch said Congolese authorities have failed to provide protection to the groups , and charged that security forces were involved in some of the attacks .
The rights group urged a U.N. Security Council delegation set to visit the DRC Sunday to speak out against the intimidation .
It said the elections , set for July 30 , can not be free and fair if the press and civil society are too afraid to speak out or engage in legitimate political debate .
The DRC has been struggling to recover from a five-year civil war that left an estimated four million people dead .
A moderate earthquake has sent people running away from the coastline of Indonesia 's Sulawesi island , less than a week after a powerful quake off Java island generated a tsunami that killed nearly 700 people .
The latest quake , of 6.1 magnitude , struck deep under the waters of Tomini Bay off northern Sulawesi 's Gorontalo province Sunday .
Fears of a tsunami proved unfounded , however , and there are no reports of damage or injuries .
Japanese and U.S. monitoring agencies in the Pacific Ocean did not issue a tsunami warning after the quake .
A powerful earthquake off the coast of Java last Monday generated a crushing wave that barreled through homes , restaurants and hotels in the Pangandaran area .
Indonesian officials say the death toll from that tsunami has climbed to at least 668 .
Thousands of prisoners in Kenya reportedly volunteered to skip lunch on New Year 's day so that the food could be sent to those suffering from famine .
They skipped the meal after President Mwai Kibaki declared Kenya 's famine a national disaster and asked for more than $ 150 million in relief aid .
Inadequate rainfall during Kenya 's rainy season has caused crop failure and the depletion of livestock herds .
President Kibaki said in his New Year 's address that nearly one in 10 Kenyans will need famine relief for the next six months .
At least 20 people and thousands of livestock have died as a result of the drought and famine .
President Bush is expected to nominate one of his closest friends , Karen Hughes , to lead a State Department effort to improve the reputation of the United States among Muslims in the Arab world .
The 48-year-old Ms. Hughes is expected to be nominated next week as Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs , a position that requires Senate confirmation .
Ms. Hughes will join Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in leading the president 's push for democracy in the Middle East .
Ms. Hughes has been one of President Bush 's closest advisors since he became the governor of Texas 10 years ago .
The position of Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy has been vacant since last June when Margaret Tutwiler resigned after only six months on the job .
A Burmese aid group says Burma 's military government has launched a new offensive along the country 's eastern border with Thailand .
The Free Burma Rangers says Burmese forces have displaced thousands of villagers in Karen state , burning their homes and rice crops .
The group says nearly 5000 villagers are hiding in jungle and mountain areas of Burma .
The U.S. Campaign for Burma last week reported similar attacks .
The human right group said the attacks were aimed at bringing eastern Burma , which has historically been under control of Burma 's ethnic minorities , under the control of the country 's military government .
Rights groups say more than 5,00,000 villagers are believed to have been forced from their homes in eastern Burma over the past decade .
Spanish authorities say firefighters are making progress against wildfires that have scorched large parts of the Canary Islands .
"Officials said Wednesday the fires on the main islands of Tenerife and Gran Canaria had "" stabilized "" as winds eased and temperatures moderated ."
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero inspected the damage and promised special government aid .
Authorities say a quarter of the forests on both islands have been incinerated , along with habitats of rare plants and animals .
The blazes have not reached coastal resorts popular with European tourists .
Environmentalists call the fires a catastrophe .
About 9,000 people were in emergency shelters on Tenerife Wednesday , while most of the 5,000 displaced people on Gran Canaria have begun returning home .
Tenerife authorities say they suspect arsonists started the wildfire on the island .
Police on Gran Canaria are holding a forest worker who confessed to starting a fire there last Friday .
A group of prominent political religious and business figures , led by former Czech President Vaclav Havel , has criticized Russia 's handling of a separatist rebellion in Chechnya .
A letter by the group Wednesday accuses Russian President Vladimir Putin of using the war in Chechnya to take away people 's freedoms and re-establish an autocracy .
In addition to Havel , the authors of the letter include former Irish President Mary Robinson , retired South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu , and billionaire George Soros .
The letter appeared in a Prague newspaper , the Mlada Fronta Dnes , Wednesday as the Russian leader was due to begin a visit to the Czech capital .
Russian troops battled separatist rebels in Chechnya for several years in the 1990s , but the fighting has subsided in recent years with pro-Russian forces controlling much of the republic .
Cuban President Raul Castro says the ruling Communist Party will hold a congress in April , the first party congress to be held in Cuba since 1997 .
Mr. Castro said the island 's leaders will meet to chart a new economic future for the country .
He made the announcement after meeting Monday with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez .
There has been intense speculation that Fidel Castro 's future might be discussed at the next Communist Party congress , but Raul Castro did not mention his brother Monday .
Fidel Castro , 84 , stepped down as president of Cuba in 2006 , but remains head of the Communist Party .
"Vatican officials say Pope John Paul II is getting nutrition through a nasal tube to boost his calorie intake and help what they call his "" slow and progressive "" recovery from throat surgery ."
A Vatican spokesman said the pontiff spends many hours in an armchair , celebrates Mass and works in contact with his aides in directly following church activities .
He issued the statement shortly after the 84-year-old pontiff appeared at his window overlooking Saint Peter 's Square Wednesday , to bless the faithful .
The crowd greeted the pope with cheers and applause when he raised his hand to bless them .
But he was unable to speak when an aide put a microphone in front of him .
The Vatican statement was the first official medical report on the pope since March 10 , three days before he was discharged from a hospital following a tracheotomy .
A group of Palestinian gunmen have briefly seized Bethelehem city hall in the West Bank , apparently demanding financial assistance from the Palestinian Authority .
About 20 gunmen appeared on the roof of the city hall Tuesday , ordered all workers out and threatened to open fire .
Palestinian police sealed off the streets leading to the building on Manger Square , near the Church of the Nativity .
Officials say the gunmen were linked to the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades militant faction of the ruling Fatah movement of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas .
They were demanding money for about 300 members .
The gunmen left the building after about an hour , following talks with the governor of Bethlehem .
It was not immediately clear how the standoff was resolved .
The incident is another sign of growing turmoil within the Palestinian territories ahead of a January parliamentary election .
Pakistani officials say five militants , including suicide bombers , have been killed while trying to enter a military training area in the country 's northwest .
Authorities say security forces opened fire on the attackers Tuesday as they tried to infiltrate the training center in the town of Mardan , near the Afghan border .
Officials say three suicide bombers detonated their explosives during the gunbattle , while two other militants were killed by troops .
Four soldiers were wounded in the attack .
There was no immediate claim of responsibility , but Taliban militants have carried out attacks in the area in the past .
Russian President Vladimir Putin says the Kremlin 's opposition to independence for Kosovo is based on international law and a desire for regional stability .
Mr. Putin said during talks with Serbian President Boris Tadic Sunday that Russia 's position is not based on what he calls ethnic or historical considerations .
Mr. Tadic repeated Serbia 's opposition to an independent Kosovo , but said he is willing to compromise .
Kosovo is an ethnic Albanian majority province of Serbia .
The United Nations Security Council is considering a draft resolution that backs a U.N. envoy 's plan for supervised independence for the region .
Russia , a traditional Serbian ally , has hinted it would veto the resolution .
Kosovo has been under U.N. supervision since 1999 , when NATO airstrikes drove out Serbian and Yugoslav forces waging violence against the ethnic Albanians .
South Korea and China have canceled meetings with top Japanese officials to protest Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi 's visit to a controversial war shrine .
"South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon said Wednesday he had called off a trip to Japan , saying the visit would not be "" appropriate . """
Officials in Seoul also say President Roh Moo-hyun may cancel a summit with Mr. Koizumi , expected to take place later this year .
Tuesday , China canceled a trip to Beijing by Japan 's foreign minister , saying the visit was not timely given the current situation .
The Yasukuni shrine honors 2.5 million Japanese war dead , including convicted war criminals .
Critics say Yasukuni represents Japan 's past military aggression , but Mr. Koizumi says his visits are to pray for peace .
"President Bush says sanctions are a "" real possibility "" against Iran for its controversial nuclear program ."
Interviewed Friday on the CBS television network , Mr. Bush said a free world can not allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon .
Mr. Bush said he is open to all possible options for dealing with Iran , including military intervention .
In Tehran , the chief of Iran 's Revolutionary Guards , General Yahya Rahim Safavi , said Saturday his country would use ballistic missiles to defend itself if attacked .
On Friday , the U.S. Senate voted unanimously to condemn Iran 's nuclear program , and to support referring Tehran to the United Nations Security Council for allegedly violating the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty .
The International Atomic Energy Agency meets February 2 in Vienna to discuss the Iran nuclear standoff .
A brief gunbattle between rival Fatah factions erupted outside the Gaza headquarters of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas Wednesday , as the ruling party prepared to register its list of candidates for January 's parlimentary elections .
Witnesses say at least three people were wounded .
The clash occurred after Fatah gunmen stormed the building demanding that the party respect the results of recent primary elections .
Mr. Abbas has decided to appoint candidates after canceling the results of the primaries in Gaza and some other areas where balloting was marred by violence and fraud .
Some hard-liners fear they will not be properly represented in the Fatah list .
On Tuesday , a flare-up of election-related violence in Gaza forced Palestinian election officials to close their offices in the there and in the West Bank .
The offices are to open later today .
Mr. Abbas has been struggling to contain internal unrest since Israel pulled out of Gaza in September .
U.S. troops and Iraqi security forces have detained 49 suspected insurgents north of Baghdad , as operations continue to secure the country ahead of January 's election .
The U.S. military says the pre-dawn raid Friday was in the town of Duluiyah , in the insurgent-plagued Sunni Triangle north and west of Baghdad .
Meanwhile , in Baghdad , firefighters extinguished a blaze at the city 's main oil refinery , which was attacked by saboteurs late Thursday .
Also Friday , near Fallujah , the body of an Iraqi National Guardsman was found with a note warning others against working with U.S.-led forces .
Iraq 's security forces have been the main target of insurgent violence .
And South Korea 's parliament overwhelmingly approved keeping its 3,600 troops in northern Iraq for another year .
Pope Benedict has met with the parents of the four-year-old British girl who disappeared from a tourist resort in Portugal in early May .
The pope Wednesday spoke to Gerry and Kate McCann following his weekly audience in St. Peter 's Square .
The pontiff blessed a photograph of their daughter , Madeleine , who disappeared when the parents left her and two siblings in a resort hotel while they went to dinner .
Kate McCann said the pope told her he would continue to pray for Madeleine 's safe return .
The couple are devout Catholics , but Gerry McCann said he had conflicting emotions about meeting the pope because of the circumstances .
The McCann 's are also planning to travel to Spain and Germany in their continued campaign to publicize their daughter 's disappearance .
A public outcry in Britain and Portugal at the apparent abduction of young Madeleine has prompted politicians and celebrities to offer their support .
A leading human rights group is criticizing what it calls the refusal by the United States and other western countries to intervene in Sudan 's troubled Darfur region .
In its annual report , Human Rights Watch says western countries are wrong to leave peacekeeping duties in Darfur to the African Union , which the group calls a new institution with no peacekeeping experience .
Last year , the African Union began sending peacekeepers to Darfur , where two years of fighting between rebels and government-backed militias have claimed an estimated 70,000 lives .
On another issue , the HRW report says the abuse of prisoners by U.S. soldiers at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq weakened the worldwide system for protecting human rights .
The report also condemns attacks on the rights of sexual minorities around the world .
The Supreme Court of Pakistan has given the country 's election commission 30 days to register all eligible voters left out of draft electoral lists .
The petition was filed by former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and her opposition Pakistan People 's Party .
It contends that more than 20 million eligible voters had not been enrolled .
At a hearing Friday , the election commission requested 140 days to prepare the revised lists .
The two-member bench rejected the request , saying the time period was too long .
The court instead granted the commission 30 days to make the necessary changes .
The decision comes a day after Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf decided against declaring a state of emergency that could have delayed elections for a year .
British diplomat John Sawers says Iran presented no major new proposals at Monday 's last-ditch talks aimed at resolving the standoff over Iran 's nuclear program .
But Iran 's negotiator Javad Vaeedi described the session with Britain , Germany and France in Brussels as positive .
The talks came before Monday 's meeting in London of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council and Germany on Iran 's nuclear program .
President Bush , speaking at the White House , said there is an international consensus that Iran should not be allowed to develop a nuclear weapon .
He says U.S. and other officials are working on how to go about achieving that goal .
Later this week , the International Atomic Energy Agency holds an emergency session that could see Iran referred to the U.N. Security Council for possible sanctions .
The U.S. unemployment rate fell unexpectedly in July , in one of the strongest signals yet that the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression may be ending .
A report from the Labor Department Friday shows the unemployment rate dropped to 9.4 percent last month , compared to 9.5 percent in June .
It is the first time the jobless rate has fallen since April 2008 .
Employers cut 2,47,000 jobs in July .
The number is much less than analysts had expected , but still an indication of a weak job market .
In total , about 14.5 million people are unemployed in the United States .
President Barack Obama has said the $ 787 billion economic stimulus plan he signed within months of taking office has stopped the recession from getting worse .
"Chinese President Hu Jintao is calling for closer economic and cultural relations with Taiwan to maintain peace in the region , and to curb what he calls the island 's "" secessionist activities . """
China 's official Xinhua news agency says Mr. Hu made the comments Saturday in Beijing at a forum on China and Taiwan business ties .
Xinhua says that during the forum , the Chinese leader met with the honorary chairman of Taiwan 's main opposition party , Lien Chan .
About 500 participants are attending the two-day event .
They are expected to discuss issues including direct flights from Taiwan to the mainland .
Taiwan and China split in 1949 following a civil war .
But Beijing still considers the island as part of its territory and has threatened to use force if necessary to reunite the two sides .
The man who has been guiding the U.S. economy for the past 18 years , Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan , is set to retire at the end of January .
The head of the U.S. central bank is highly regarded by economists , markets and political leaders .
President Bush has given no indication who he is considering to replace Mr. Greenspan or when his decision will be announced .
News reports speculate that the chairman of Mr. Bush 's Council of Economic Advisors , Ben Bernanke , is the leading candidate .
He is a monetary economist and a former member of the key Fed committee that sets interest rates .
Other candidates include academic economists with policy experience like Glenn Hubbard and Martin Feldstein .
Venezuela says a bomb attack has killed Deputy Attorney General Danilo Anderson .
Officials told VOA Friday the charred body has been positively identified as that of Mr. Anderson , who was killed around midnight Thursday as he drove through a suburb of Caracas .
Mr. Anderson had been in charge of prosecuting several hundred politicians , businessmen and former military officers involved in a failed April 2002 coup that briefly ousted President Hugo Chavez .
Officials say President Chavez has canceled his trip to Costa Rica Friday to attend the Ibero-American summit .
They say he has also canceled a two-week tour of Spain , Iran , Libya and Russia that was to begin this weekend .
The price of crude oil soared Tuesday , hitting a new record high above $ 119 a barrel in New York trading .
The price of crude oil for future delivery went to $ 119.48 cents a barrel .
Traders say a tight balance between demand and supply means oil prices jump when supplies seem threatened or demand rises .
Currently supply concerns are growing out of violence in Nigeria , reports that Russia will produce less oil this year , and a possible strike by Scottish refinery workers .
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries says it will boost its current 32-million-barrel-a-day output by a bit more than one quarter by the year 2020 .
That will help meet growing demand in the long term but has little effect on oil prices right now .
OPEC officials say there is sufficient oil on the market and blames rising prices on speculators and the falling U.S. dollar .
Three people have been rescued after a tunnel allegedly used by Palestinian weapons smugglers collapsed .
Israel says a joint Israeli army and Palestinian operation succeeded in reaching the men , several hours after the tunnel along the border between the Gaza Strip and Egypt fell in .
The incident happened in the same area where Israeli soldiers shot and killed three Egyptian police officers Thursday .
The Israeli army says a tank crew mistook the Egyptians for Palestinian militants and opened fire .
Egypt has condemned the killings .
The Israeli army has expressed its regret .
Israeli officials also apologized and opened an investigation .
European Union regulators have fined Microsoft Corporation $ 357 million for failing to share programming code with its rivals , as demanded by a 2004 antitrust ruling .
The EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes says Microsoft is continuing its illegal conduct , and no company is above the law .
The fine was assessed at a rate of nearly $ 2 million a day from December 16 through June 20 .
EU officials say Microsoft 's daily fines will double ( to $ 3.8 million ) at the end of this month if the company 's violations continue .
The European Union fined Microsoft $ 633 million in 2004 and ordered the company to give its rivals the technical information necessary for their programs to operate smoothly on computers using Microsoft 's Windows operating system .
Microsoft has said it has 300 people working full time to comply with the EU 's orders , and that any additional fines would be unjustified .
Icy rain and snow brought down a major power line in Moscow , shutting down the city 's main airport and snarling traffic on its busy streets .
Officials said on Sunday that flights from the Domodedovo airport were suspended for almost 15 hours until the power was partially restored and some planes were allowed to take off .
Flights from Moscow 's second airport , Sheremetyevo , were operating , but travelers experienced delays .
Roughly 2,00,000 people were left without power as ice snapped power lines and slicked over the capital 's streets and encased cars .
According to Russia 's state-owned news agency , Ria Novosti , some 6,000 passengers were stranded at Domodedovo , and taxis were charging more than $ 300 to take clients to the airport .
Officials warned residents to stay home until conditions improved .
The United Nations says in the past year more than one million people contracted HIV infections in South Asia , and the disease is spreading largely due to drug use and unsafe sex .
In its annual report on the global AIDS epidemic , the world body says the spread of HIV is stabilizing in some of India 's states , but overall it is still rising .
India already has an estimated 5.1 million HIV-positive people .
According to the report , some 42 percent of female sex workers in India say they are able to guess if their clients are HIV positive because of their physical appearance .
But the report says ignorance about the disease is serious elsewhere in South Asia .
Citing Pakistan as an example , the report says one in every five female sex workers in the largest city of Karachi can not recognize a condom , and one-third never heard of AIDS .
Israel has agreed to free 170 Palestinian prisoners .
The release is part of a promise Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon made to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to secure the release this month of an Israeli jailed by Egypt on espionage charges .
Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon called Sunday 's decision a goodwill gesture toward the Egyptian leader .
The Palestinians are expected to be freed in the next week .
"The prisoners ' identities were not immediately known , but Israel has said it would not release those it said had "" blood on their hands . """
Palestinian officials have long demanded the release of thousands of prisoners held by Israel .
They have also criticized previous prisoner releases as inadequate .
The U.S. secretary of the interior said he will not change a Bush administration rule on protection of polar bears , despite pressure from environmentalists .
Ken Salazar announced Friday that a special rule applying to polar bears , under the Endangered Species Act , can only restrict dangers to the bears that originate in the bears ' northern habitat .
That rules out application of the rule to carbon emissions farther south , even though they can affect the Arctic climate where the bears live .
"Salazar said the Endangered Species Act was not the "" proper mechanism "" for dealing with climate change and said a more comprehensive strategy is needed ."
Environmentalists criticized the decision as threatening to the polar bear population .
Polar bears have been a touchstone in discussions on climate change because they rely on sea ice , which scientists say is melting as the planet 's atmosphere warms .
Police in southwest Pakistan say gunmen have shot and killed the government spokesman in southwestern Balochistan province .
Local officers say that Raziq Bugti died at the scene after unidentified assailants fired a barrage of shots into his vehicle as it traveled through the provincial capital , Quetta .
Bugti served as the spokesman for the provincial government and advisor to the chief minister .
In May , Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf said that government forces have wiped out nearly all separatist camps in the gas-rich province .
Nationalist rebels have been fighting for decades for a larger share of the profits from the resources of Balochistan , Pakistan 's biggest province .
Hundreds of people have been killed in separatist attacks on gas , transport and other energy facilities .
Nigeria has rejected as unfair a new corruption index which says the oil-rich nation is seen as the most corrupt on the African continent .
In a statement , Nigeria 's Information Ministry said the index by Berlin-based group Transparency International failed to recognize the government 's efforts at fighting graft .
It accused the group of using faulty and outdated information in its annual ranking of 146 nations based on perceived corruption .
Nigerian officials also say the index focuses on governments taking bribes , but ignores western companies blamed for offering illegal payments .
The index lists Nigeria ahead of only Bangladesh and Haiti as the most corrupt nations in the world .
Transparency International says corruption is often high among other oil-producing nations as well , including Angola , Chad , Libya and Sudan .
Afghanistan 's Interior Ministry says roadside bomb blasts in southern Helmand province have killed six civilians .
The Interior Ministry said the deaths occurred Saturday in two places after the victims drove over the devices .
Meanwhile , a joint NATO-Afghan security force has killed several Taliban fighters in an operation in the northeast .
NATO says one of the insurgents killed Saturday near Alasay Valley in Kapisa province , outside Kabul , is a suspected Taliban commander .
He is believed to be responsible for violent attacks against Afghan government officials , as well as the joint forces .
Officials say the insurgents are also suspected of imposing strict curfews on the villages in the valley and conducting illegal patrols to enforce Taliban control on local civilians .
Multiple weapons , including a rocket-propelled grenade , were discovered during the operation .
In southern Afghanistan , the British Defense Ministry said Saturday one of its soldiers was killed by a suicide blast .
Croatia 's Janica Kostelic has won her first ever women 's World Cup giant slalom title in Spindleruv Mlyn , the Czech Republic .
Kostelic finished with a combined time of two minutes , 21.3 seconds .
Kathrin Zettel of Austria was second , 0.08 of one second back .
Another Austrian , Marlies Schild , was third ( 2.21.40 ) .
Kostelic , the reigning Olympic giant slalom champion , had never won the event on the World Cup circuit before .
Kostelic has won previously in World Cup slalom and combined events and claimed the world championships in the downhill , the slalom and the combined .
A Ukrainian court has ruled the privatization of the country 's largest steel mill was illegal .
A court in Kiev made the ruling Thursday regarding the Kryvorizhstal mill .
A consortium that included the son-in-law of former Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma purchased the complex in June for $ 800 million , far less than its estimated value .
Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko said Wednesday that some 3,000 privatizations will be reviewed to ensure they were conducted fairly .
Meanwhile , Justice Minister Roman Zvarych is threatening to quit after less than two weeks on the job , citing efforts by businessmen to influence his ministry .
He told Canal Five television he refuses to allow businessmen who are also deputies with oil ties to interfere with his work , and said he will not allow members of the government , who he did not name , drag his family into corruption schemes .
Military forces of two Burmese ethnic groups engaged in intense fighting along the border with Thailand earlier this week .
Sources say the fighting broke out Tuesday between forces aligned with the Wa and Shan groups near Thailand 's northern Mae Hong Son province .
The battle began after talks to resolve several issues broke down , including a dispute over water use .
There is also speculation that illegal drugs also played a part in the fighting .
Thailand has increased security along the Burmese border to keep the violence from spilling over into its territories .
The U.S. military says it has captured a number of key terrorist leaders in a series of operations aimed at weakening al-Qaida in Iraq .
The military says its forces spread out across central and northern Iraq Thursday , detaining 25 suspected terrorists .
Officials say one of the suspects is an alleged leader of an al-Qaida cell in Baghdad who was helping to bring foreign terrorists into Iraq .
Forces also arrested a man thought to be senior al-Qaida leader in Mosul .
In violence Wednesday , a suicide car bomber attacked an Iraqi army patrol in the northern city of Mosul , killing three people and wounding 14 others .
In Baghdad , the military said a roadside bomb wounded three Iraqi civilians .
The military also said Iraqi soldiers recovered Iranian-made rockets and other weapons in Baghdad 's Sadr City district on Monday .
It said some of the Iranian munitions had a manufacture date of early 2008 .
Pakistan 's Interior Ministry says gunmen have released all the children briefly held hostage at a high school in North West Frontier Province .
Ministry spokesman Javed Cheema says the gunmen surrendered to the local jirga ( tribal council ) along with their weapons and released the children .
The ministry said up to 250 students were being held .
The gunmen took refuge in the school after an aborted attempt to abduct a health official in a neighboring district .
The official was eventually freed after clashes with police .
Police then surrounded the building while tribesmen negotiated with the insurgents .
Officials say the kidnappers had demanded safe passage in return for freeing the students .
Violence has spread in recent months in areas of Pakistan near the border with Afghanistan , which are believed to be sanctuaries for al Qaeda and Taliban militants .
"The head of the World Health Organization says the world 's capacity for making enough swine flu vaccine for nearly seven billion people is "" woefully inadequate . """
Margaret Chan said at a Geneva conference Tuesday that almost everyone on the planet is susceptible to the H1N1 swine flu virus .
But she said most of the limited supply of the vaccine will go to wealthy countries , calling it an example of life-saving intervention biased towards affluence .
Chan called for more innovation in developing new medicines to ensure everyone gets the vaccine .
WHO officials have said they believe the first mass vaccines will be available by September and that health care providers should get inoculated first .
The latest WHO report confirms nearly 95,000 swine flu cases worldwide with 429 deaths .
Political analysts say the results of some close elections across the United States could be delayed for days or weeks , as absentee and provisional ballots are counted .
Many states have allowed voters to cast absentee ballots for weeks .
Those votes , however , usually take longer to count , and a final tally of the results from those ballots could take days .
Provisional ballots are often used when a voter is not registered at the polling place , who did not bring the proper type of identification or who shows up at the wrong voting precinct .
In 2004 , the first year provisional ballots were used nationwide , about 1.9 million people cast them .
More than 1.2 million of those votes were ruled valid .
In the northwestern state of Washington in 2004 , provisional ballots played a role in delaying Democratic gubernatorial candidate Christine Gregoire 's victory for more than eight weeks .
A massive winter storm is barreling across the central United States , causing mayhem on the roads and threatening to ruin many Americans ' Christmas holiday plans .
The storm stretches as far north as Minnesota , along the Canadian border , to Texas in the south .
Freezing rain , snow and heavy winds are making driving conditions extremely dangerous in some states .
The National Weather Service has issued a blizzard warning to remain in effect for many areas until Saturday , predicting up to 30 centimeters of snow in many northern locales .
"The warning says "" life-threatening "" weather conditions are expected and strongly discourages travel ."
Americans on the east coast are just recovering from a major storm last week that dropped as much as 60 centimeters of snow in some areas , and caused widespread power outages .
A winter storm in the northeastern United States has shut down airline travel and cut power to thousands of people .
U.S. weather forecasters said more than 50 centimeters of snow has fallen in some areas since Saturday , and more snow was expected through Sunday .
Officials closed at least two major airports servicing New York City , and air traffic was disrupted at other key cities .
Service resumed at Ronald Reagan National airport in Washington , which had closed earlier in the day .
Heavy snow snapped trees and power lines near Washington , cutting electricity to thousands of people .
New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg warned residents to remain indoors until roads and sidewalks were cleared .
A blizzard warning was in effect for New York city and surrounding areas .
And The National Weather Service issued a heavy snow warning for an area extending from West Virginia to Maine .
Cuba has announced an increase in government salaries for workers with advanced university degrees , municipal and provincial employees , and those certified as masters of their trades or otherwise noted for their productivity .
The pay hike is designed to help those who were not affected by a minimum wage hike in May .
Retirement and social assistance pensions were also raised .
In a speech last week , Cuban President Fidel Castro indicated pay increases may be needed to battle corruption .
At the same time , Cuba announced a steep increase in utility rates for heavy users of electricity .
The heavily subsidized rates Cubans now pay for the first 100 kilowatt hours will stay the same , but after that , rates increase to up to three times their former rates for the heaviest users .
Granma , the Cuban Communist Party newspaper , said the increase was to encourage energy conservation among Cubans .
Iraqi authorities say at least 10 people have been killed and 21 others wounded in a car bomb attack on a Shi'ite mosque in central Iraq .
Police say a suicide bomber blew himself up early Friday , as worshippers were leaving the al-Rasul al-Aadham mosque in the central town of Tuz Khurmatu , nearly 170 kilometers north of Baghdad .
Earlier Friday in the capital , Iraqi police say gunmen opened fire on a group of day laborers , killing at least three people and wounding 13 others .
The attacks come as part of a campaign of violence by insurgents that has killed more than 180 people in Iraq since Wednesday .
Separately , the U.S. military says an American soldier was killed late Thursday in an explosion in the city of Ramadi , in al-Anbar province .
A delegation of U.S. lawmakers and businessmen is expected to arrive in Cuba Wednesday for talks aimed at selling more agricultural products to the communist nation .
Democratic Senator Max Baucus of Montana , state lawmakers and agricultural producers will meet in Havana with Cuban officials for several days of talks .
They hope to sign deals aimed at selling $ 100 million in food and agricultural products to Havana .
Under an exemption to the U.S. sanctions against Cuba , American agricultural goods can be sold to the island on a cash-only basis .
Since 2001 , Havana has purchased more than $ 700 million in food products .
Meanwhile , Cuba is pressing ahead with its largest military exercise in 20 years .
Officials say military forces , reservists and millions of civilians are taking part in the six-day exercise , called Bastion 2004 .
"A top United Nations envoy has held what he describes as "" encouraging "" talks with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad about a U.N. resolution calling for all Syrian troops to leave Lebanon ."
After meeting the Syrian leader Thursday in Damascus , envoy Terje Roed-Larsen said he delivered a message from U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , and that he is hopeful about implementing the U.N. measure .
No schedule for further talks has been announced .
Western analysts say Syria has at least 14,000 troops in neighboring Lebanon .
Damascus has been sharply critical of a U.N. resolution passed last September , which calls for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Lebanon .
Syria has criticized the resolution as an infringement on a bilateral agreement with the Beirut government .
Federal officials in the U.S. state of Arizona have indicted 13 Bosnian Serbs on charges of lying on their visa applications about their prior military service .
Officials said seven others were being held on similar charges .
The indicted ethnic Serbs from Bosnia-Herzegovina are charged with concealing their prior service in Bosnian Serb forces .
However , some families of the accused have said they did not serve in the military ; others said they were conscripted against their will .
Last year , four other Bosnian Serbs in Arizona were arrested and charged with lying on immigration paperwork .
All immigrants applying for legal residency in the United States must disclose prior military service .
Widespread atrocities occurred during the conflict of the 1990s in Bosnia-Herzegovina , including the slaughter of thousands of civilians by Serb forces .
Doctors say Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is recovering well from heart surgery and has been moved out of intensive care .
His doctors told several Indian news agencies Wednesday that the prime minister is likely to be discharged from the hospital within the next few days if he continues to recover on schedule .
The prime minister had heart bypass surgery on Saturday after he complained of chest pains and tests showed he had several blocked arteries .
He had a similar operation in Britain in 1990 .
Doctors have previously said that Mr. Singh , who is 76 , should be able to resume his full duties within four weeks .
No acting prime minister has been named .
Indian officials say until Mr. Singh recovers , there will be collective decision-making by the Cabinet , chaired by External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee .
The United Nation 's food agency has tripled the amount of emergency aid it is seeking for Niger , saying more is needed to save 2.5 million people from extreme hunger .
The World Food Program said Wednesday it now needs more than $ 57 million for its operations in Niger .
It says this is the third time in six months it has raised its appeal .
Executive Director James Morris says if donors had responded earlier , the cost of the operation would be greatly reduced .
He said the situation has deteriorated severely over recent months .
The agency says donations only started flowing recently after television pictures showed images of starving children .
Tuesday , Niger 's President , Mamadou Tandja , thanked humanitarian agencies for sending emergency aid and said Niger 's food crisis is improving .
Lebanese soldiers have seized several buildings in a Palestinian refugee camp where they have been battling Islamic militants for two months .
The Lebanese military says two soldiers were killed in Sunday 's fighting in the Nahr el-Bared camp near Tripoli .
Witnesses say Lebanese flags were seen flying over buildings in the camp .
The military also bombarded militants ' positions with artillery shells for a second day , as the militants fired rockets that hit fields outside the camp .
More than 170 people , including at least 97 Lebanese soldiers , have been killed since the standoff began May 20th .
Nearly all of the Palestinian refugees living in the camp have fled .
Last month , Lebanese officials claimed victory in the fighting , but daily firefights have continued since then .
The price of crude oil has fallen to its lowest level in more than 18 months as mild weather in the northern hemisphere has caused inventories to rise .
Light sweet crude for February delivery Tuesday dropped as much as $ 2 a barrel to $ 53.88 .
That is the lowest price per barrel in New York trading since June 2005 .
The price drop comes despite the disruption of Russia 's oil exports to Europe .
Moscow refuses to pay a newly imposed customs tax by Minsk for its oil crossing Belarus , which supplies 20 percent of Russian oil to Europe .
Oil also declined as traders expressed skepticism OPEC plans to cut oil production by another 5,00,000 barrels per day .
The international oil cartel agreed to a production cut of one million barrels per day in November , but prices have continued to drop .
The White House is hailing an upcoming Israeli-Palestinian summit in Egypt , calling it an encouraging step that shows both sides want to seize the opportunity for peace .
The U.S. comments Wednesday followed announcements that Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will meet new Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas and Jordan 's King Abdullah Tuesday in Sharm al-Sheikh .
The summit coincides with a visit to the region by U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice , who is to meet separately with Mr. Sharon and Mr. Abbas the day before the February 8 summit .
In Cairo Wednesday , Egypt held talks with Palestinian militant leaders , as part of a push to strengthen support for the de~facto Israeli-Palestinian cease-fire in effect for most of the past two weeks .
Sources said Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal and Islamic Jihad leader Ramadan Shallah both met with Egyptian negotiators .
Egyptian security forces have arrested at least 10 more members of the country 's largest opposition group , the Muslim Brotherhood .
Thursday 's arrests come after 17 Brotherhood members were detained earlier this week .
The Egyptian government is intensifying its crackdown on the banned Islamist political group .
The Brotherhood says the government campaign is a direct reaction to the group 's rejection of constitutional amendments proposed by President Hosni Mubarak .
Officials of the Brotherhood say the amendments are aimed at giving the ruling party more power and barring Muslim Brothers from politics .
The Brotherhood won a fifth of the seats in Egypt 's parliament by running members as independents in the 2005 elections , making it the largest opposition group .
The constitutional amendments proposed by Mr. Mubarak would reduce the role of judges in monitoring elections and ban religious groups from forming political parties .
The Brotherhood advocates an Islamic state , achieved through peaceful means .
"An Israeli security official says a top Hamas commander captured last week could be a "" bargaining chip "" to win the release of an Israeli soldier held for over a year ."
Public Security Minister Avi Dichter told Israeli Army Radio Monday that Hamas commander Mhawesh al-Qadi might be exchanged for Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit .
Israeli commandos dressed as Palestinian security forces abducted the Hamas commander in Gaza Strip in a raid on Friday .
Shalit was captured by militant groups in Gaza in June 2006 .
Hamas , which seized control of Gaza three months ago , has demanded the release of hundreds of Palestinian prisoners in exchange for the Israeli soldier .
Afghan officials say two senior members of Afghanistan 's former Taleban regime have surrendered to the government under an amnesty offer .
The two men are Mullah Mohammad Naseem , the former Taleban governor of Zabul province , and Haji Mohammad Akhtar , the former police chief of Farah province .
The governor of Helmand province , Mullah Sher Mohammad , said they surrendered after month-long talks .
In the southeastern Khost province , the U.S. military said coalition forces have killed at least 12 insurgents in a clash in southeastern Khost province .
A military statement Thursday , said the fighting erupted late Tuesday , when insurgents fired rockets at a U.S. base at Salerno and troops retaliated with artillery and air strikes at rebel positions .
There were no coalition casualties .
The pairs freeskate program highlights action at the 2006 Olympics Monday in Turin , Italy as top Russian and Chinese pairs duel for a gold medal .
Two-time world and five-time European champion Maxim Marinin and Tatiana Totmianina of Russian placed first in the short program Saturday .
They will try to hold off Zhang Dan and Zhang Hao ( not related ) .
The Chinese pair is second after the short program .
Gold is up for grabs in the women 's 15-kilometer biathlon , which combines shooting with cross-country skiing .
Seven-time world champion Liv-Grete Poiree of Norway will seek her first Olympic gold in her third appearance at the Winter Games .
Women 's half-pipe snowboarding will award a gold medal , with 2002 Olympic champion Kelly Clark hoping to take home another gold and lead a U.S. sweep .
The men go for gold in the 500-meters long track speed skating event .
French authorities responded to several new arson attacks late Friday as rioting continued for the ninth straight night in the suburbs of Paris .
Dozens of vehicles and buildings were set on fire in suburbs north of the city as gangs of young rioters , mostly of North African origin , harassed police and firefighters .
Similar incidents were reported elsewhere in France for the second night .
The latest outbreak comes despite the presence of more than one thousand police officers in the Paris suburbs .
French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin met with youths from those areas earlier Friday to discuss the crisis .
Many of the rioters say the French government has a racial bias and treats them as second class citizens .
The violence started last week when two North African teenagers hid from police at a power station and were accidentally electrocuted .
President Bush is on his way to Mar Del Plata , Argentina , to attend the Summit of the Americas , which opens Friday .
Mr. Bush and 31 other democratically elected leaders will discuss ways to boost employment , fight poverty and strengthen democracy throughout the western hemisphere .
Two other democratic nations : Panama and Honduras , are sending delegations , but not their head of state .
At the summit , Mr. Bush is expected to push for resumed negotiations on a free trade zone that would encompass North , Central and South America .
Mexico has voiced support for the idea , but critics such as Venezuela and Cuba say it will do nothing for the poor .
Mr. Bush is also expected to meet privately with Argentina 's president , Nestor Kirchner .
After the summit , the U.S. leader will visit Brazil and Panama before returning to Washington Monday .
The U.S. Navy says it has captured a group of suspected pirates in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia .
The Navy says a missile destroyer , the USS Winston S. Churchill , and other U.S. Naval forces in the area located the pirate ship Saturday after receiving a report of a piracy attempt .
"After unsuccessful attempts to contact the ship , the destroyer began what the Navy called "" aggressive maneuvering "" to stop the vessel ."
The pirate ship finally stopped after the destroyer fired warning shots , and the crew effectively surrendered .
The Navy says sailors discovered small arms on the ship .
Pirates have carried out about 25 attacks off the Somali coast since last March .
Somalia 's transitional government has signed a multi-million dollar deal with a U.S. maritime security firm to fight piracy .
Australia is scheduled to host the sixth annual Homeless World Cup later this year .
The event brings together hundreds of homeless players from 48 countries to compete .
VOA 's Sean Maroney has more on the recent Homeless USA Cup in Washington .
Indonesian authorities say a masked man featured on a video threatening attacks against the United States , Britain and Australia could be Malaysian fugitive Noordin Mohamad Top .
The video was shown to the public Wednesday .
It was among several found last week during raids that resulted in the killing of Azahari bin Husin , who police believe was the terrorist group Jemaah Islamiyah 's master bombmaker .
The tapes were discovered at a house that police say Noordin Mohamad Top rented in central Java .
Police have been hunting him and Azahari since the 2002 Bali bombings that killed 202 people .
Authorities also blame the two men for other attacks , including a car bomb blast outside the Australian embassy in Jakarta last year that killed 10 people .
"The French sports daily L'Equipe has named Swiss tennis star Roger Federer its "" Champion of Champions "" for 2005 ."
The world number-one men 's tennis player received 676 points in a vote by L'Equipe journalists to give him an overwhelming victory over world motorcycle champion Valentino Rossi of Italy .
Rossi got 387 points to take second place .
Third place went to Formula 1 world champion Fernando Alonso of Spain , while Ethiopian distance runner Kenenisa Bekele took fourth place .
The 24-year-old Federer dominated men 's tennis in 2005 , compiling an 81-4 winning record for the season .
He also captured the Wimbledon and U.S. Open Grand Slam titles for the second straight year .
Federer is the just the second tennis player to win the L'Equipe award in its 25-year history .
American Andre Agassi won in 1999 .
Iraqi officials say 965 Shi'ite pilgrims were killed Wednesday in a stampede on a bridge leading to a Baghdad shrine .
They say more than 450 others were injured and that the death toll could still rise .
Officials say panic swept through the crowd after a rumor spread that a suicide bomber was among the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims .
Hundreds of women , children and the elderly were either trampled or shoved to their deaths in the Tigris River below .
Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari declared three days of mourning .
The United States offered its condolences and help to the victims .
Earlier Wednesday , insurgents fired mortars near the shrine , killing seven people .
A little-known militant group claimed responsibility for the attack in an unverifiable Internet statement .
Elsewhere in Iraq , the U.S. military reports the deaths of two soldiers since Tuesday .
Israel has returned to Lebanon the bodies of three Hezbollah militants who were killed in cross-border fighting earlier this week .
Israeli military officials say the bodies were returned in an effort to defuse tensions and following a request from Lebanon .
Red Cross officials brought the bodies to the Lebanese border , where hundreds of black-clad Hezbollah fighters were waiting .
The three were killed Monday when they crossed into Israel during some of the heaviest fighting along the border since Israeli troops withdrew from southern Lebanon in 2000 .
A fourth Hezbollah fighter was killed , but his body was quickly retrieved by the Lebanese .
Eleven Israeli soldiers were wounded in the fighting .
Police in Pakistan say they have arrested six Islamic militants who belong to a group accused of attacks on the country 's Shi'ite minority .
Police say the militants belong to the banned Lashkar-e-Jhangvi group , which has alleged links to al-Qaida .
They made the arrests during a raid on the group 's base in Multan , in central Pakistan .
Officials say the group is responsible for suicide bombings on Shi'ite religious sites and may have been planning new attacks .
Police have arrested several other members of the group recently .
Yemeni officials say al-Qaida militants ambushed a military convoy on Friday , killing 12 soldiers .
Officials say the militants fired machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades at the convoy as it was traveling in southern Abyan province .
Authorities say the convoy was carrying supplies , including water , to military bases in the area .
Yemen 's weak central government is struggling with a growing threat from al-Qaida , which has stepped up attacks in the impoverished country .
Meanwhile , the French News Agency ( AFP ) says secessionists militants in Yemen have kidnapped an intelligence officer and three other people .
The news agency quotes southern secessionist activists as saying the abductions were in retaliation for the government 's hunt for a member of their group .
A panel of U.N. experts has asked the Security Council to impose sanctions on people it accuses of blocking peace in Sudan 's Darfur region .
The panel 's report says the council should consider placing a travel ban and a total asset freeze on figures in the Sudanese government , Darfur rebel groups , and government-backed militias .
The Security Council authorized the sanctions last March but has yet to impose them on anyone .
News agencies that obtained the report say it was scheduled to go to the full council this week but was temporarily blocked by Qatar and China .
Tens of thousands of people in Darfur have been killed and some two million displaced during three years of conflict between the rebels and Sudan 's government .
Several rounds of peace talks have failed to yield any substantial progress .
The medical aid group Doctors Without Borders says lead poisoning has killed some 400 children in northern Nigeria over the past six months .
The new toll is more than double the 160 deaths , including 111 children , that Nigerian authorities reported in June .
At that time , the World Health Organization said lead concentrations in parts of Nigeria 's Zamfara state were 250 times higher than those allowed in residential areas in the United States and France .
Nigerian health officials have said the poisoning is linked to illegal gold mining .
The WHO has sent epidemiologists and pediatricians to help contain the outbreak and prevent similar problems in the future .
Concentration of lead in the body can damage the kidneys , nervous system and reproductive system .
Children under the age of six are especially vulnerable .
Sri Lanka 's Tamil Tiger separatists are being praised by international aid workers for their efficient handling of the tsunami aftermath in the northern region controlled by the rebels .
The Washington Post reports from northern Sri Lanka that the Tigers should get most of the credit for quickly restoring order , at least in the town of Mullaittivu , which lost 3,000 of its 5,300 residents to the tsunami .
The report says by Monday afternoon , just eight days after the devastating tsunami hit Sri Lanka , most of the corpses had been burned and the ground sprayed with disinfectant .
It says Mullaittivu 's streets had been cleared and utility poles were being re-erected .
The newspaper 's correspondent found that some 1500 displaced residents had been sheltered in a college building - complete with adequate food , clothes and medicines .
Japan 's foreign minister is in Afghanistan on an unannounced visit to meet with President Hamid Karzai and Foreign Minister Rangin Dadfar Spanta .
Masahiko Komuri arrived in Kabul Sunday after a visit to Pakistan .
He was expected to discuss security issues and Afghan reconstruction with Mr. Karzai and with Spanta .
The French news agency reports that Komura asked his Afghan counterpart to work on improving relations with Pakistan .
The two nations have been struggling with armed militants sheltering along their mutual border .
Japan said Komuri 's visit was not announced ahead of time because of safety concerns .
President Karzai was the target of a bomb attack on April 27 .
In Pakistan Saturday , Komuri met with President Pervez Musharraf and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani , as well as Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi .
Talks there centered on terrorism and cooperation on infrastructure projects .
Shops and schools are closed in the main city of Indian Kashmir in protest of Israel 's continuing air strikes on southern Lebanon .
The one-day strike Saturday in Kashmir 's summer capital of Srinagar was called by Syed Ali Geelani .
He heads the hard-line wing of the separatist alliance , the All Parties Hurriyat Conference .
Angry protests were held in several parts of India Friday against Israel 's military action .
Protests erupted soon after Muslim prayers Friday afternoon in Kashmir .
Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan and is claimed in full by both
Haitian authorities said three inmates were killed Sunday in a prison riot in Haiti 's quake-damaged penitentiary .
Officials said the three were trying to escape from the Port-au-Prince prison .
It was not immediately clear if any other inmates did escape .
United Nations troops and Haitian police were in the prison at the time of the uprising .
The U.N. said the inmates briefly held seven people connected with the United Nations hostage .
Some of the hostages suffered minor injuries .
The Miami Herald newspaper reports the prison upheaval was quashed by mid-afternoon when U.N. troops blocked off the streets surrounding the prison .
Sunday 's uprising continues a long saga of unrest and dangerous conditions in Haiti 's prisons .
In the chaos after Haiti 's devastating earthquake in January , thousands of prisoners escaped the massively overcrowded penitentiary , including some well-known , dangerous gang leaders .
A prominent U.S. Republican lawmaker is criticizing CNN for airing a video from Iraqi insurgents showing a U.S. soldier in Iraq getting shot by a sniper .
"Representative Duncan Hunter of California , who chairs the House Armed Services Committee , has sent a letter to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld saying the U.S.-based network served as "" the publicist for an enemy propaganda film . """
CNN first aired the video Wednesday .
"A CNN producer says the network broadcast the video "" to present the unvarnished truth "" about the situation in Iraq ."
"But in his letter to Rumsfeld , Hunter denounces the film as "" nothing short of a terrorist snuff film . """
He is demanding that any CNN reporters embedded with U.S. forces in Iraq be expelled .
Integra-A Hotel & Restaurant Co. said its planned rights offering to raise about $ 9 million was declared effective and the company will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week .
Under the offer , shareholders will receive one right for each 105 common shares owned .
Each right entitles the shareholder to buy $ 100 face amount of 13.5 % bonds due 1993 and warrants to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share .
The rights , which expire Nov. 21 , can be exercised for $ 100 each .
Integra , which owns and operates hotels , said that Hallwood Group Inc. has agreed to exercise any rights that are n't exercised by other shareholders .
Hallwood , a Cleveland merchant bank , owns about 11 % of Integra .
Having a small , open economy makes Macedonia vulnerable to economic developments in Europe and dependent on regional integration and progress toward EU membership for continued economic growth .
At independence in September 1991 , Macedonia was the least developed of the Yugoslav republics , producing a mere 5 % of the total federal output of goods and services .
The collapse of Yugoslavia ended transfer payments from the central government and eliminated advantages from inclusion in a de~facto free trade area .
An absence of infrastructure , UN sanctions on the downsized Yugoslavia , and a Greek economic embargo over a dispute about the country 's constitutional name and flag hindered economic growth until 1996 .
Since then , Macedonia has maintained macroeconomic stability with low inflation , but it has so far lagged the region in attracting foreign investment and creating jobs , despite making extensive fiscal and business sector reforms .
Official unemployment remains high at 31.7 % , but may be overstated based on the existence of an extensive gray market , estimated to be more than 20 % of GDP , that is not captured by official statistics .
In the wake of the global economic downturn , Macedonia has experienced decreased foreign direct investment , lowered credit , and a large trade deficit .
However , as a result of conservative fiscal policies and a sound financial system , in 2010 the country received slightly improved credit ratings .
Macroeconomic stability also was maintained by a prudent monetary policy , which kept the domestic currency at the pegged level against the euro , while interest rates were falling .
As a result , GDP growth was modest , but positive , in 2010 .
In late 1999 , about 70 % of the economic infrastructure of Timor-Leste was laid waste by Indonesian troops and anti-independence militias .
Three hundred thousand people fled westward .
Over the next three years a massive international program , manned by 5,000 peacekeepers ( 8,000 at peak ) and 1,300 police officers , led to substantial reconstruction in both urban and rural areas .
By the end of 2005 , refugees had returned or had settled in Indonesia .
The country continues to face great challenges in rebuilding its infrastructure , strengthening the civil administration , and generating jobs for young people entering the work force .
The development of oil and gas resources in offshore waters has greatly supplemented government revenues .
This technology-intensive industry , however , has done little to create jobs for the unemployed because there are no production facilities in Timor-Leste .
Gas is piped to Australia .
In June 2005 , the National Parliament unanimously approved the creation of a Petroleum Fund to serve as a repository for all petroleum revenues and to preserve the value of Timor-Leste 's petroleum wealth for future generations .
The Fund held assets of US $ 6.6 billion as of October 2010 .
The economy continues to recover strongly from the mid-2006 outbreak of violence and civil unrest , which disrupted both private and public sector economic activity .
The government in 2008 resettled tens of thousands of an estimated 1,00,000 internally displaced persons ( IDPs ) ; most IDPs returned home by early 2009 .
Government spending increased markedly in 2009 and 2010 , primarily on basic infrastructure , including electricity and roads .
Limited experience in procurement and infrastructure building has hampered these projects .
The underlying economic policy challenge the country faces remains how best to use oil-and-gas wealth to lift the non-oil economy onto a higher growth path and to reduce poverty .
Finland was a province and then a grand duchy under Sweden from the 12th to the 19th centuries , and an autonomous grand duchy of Russia after 1809 .
It won its complete independence in 1917 .
During World War II , it was able to successfully defend its freedom and resist invasions by the Soviet Union - albeit with some loss of territory .
In the subsequent half century , the Finns made a remarkable transformation from a farm / forest economy to a diversified modern industrial economy ; per capita income is now among the highest in Western Europe .
A member of the European Union since 1995 , Finland was the only Nordic state to join the euro system at its initiation in January 1999 .
In the 21st century , the key features of Finland 's modern welfare state are a high standard of education , equality promotion , and national social security system - currently challenged by an aging population and the fluctuations of an export-driven economy .
Although 115 species of fish have been identified in the territorial waters of Clipperton Island , the only economic activity is tuna fishing .
A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for himself the same beautiful plumage .
Supposing that the Swan 's splendid white color arose from his washing in the water in which he swam , the Raven left the altars in the neighborhood where he picked up his living , and took up residence in the lakes and pools .
But cleansing his feathers as often as he would , he could not change their color , while through want of food he perished .
Change of habit can not alter Nature .
A BOY was stung by a Nettle .
"He ran home and told his Mother , saying , "" Although it hurts me very much , I only touched it gently . """
""" That was just why it stung you , "" said his Mother ."
""" The next time you touch a Nettle , grasp it boldly , and it will be soft as silk to your hand , and not in the least hurt you . """
Whatever you do , do with all your might .
The wind blew so much dust around the field today , we could n't even see who was beating us .
Philosophy is a game with objectives and no rules .
Mathematics is a game with rules and no objectives .
Kids in the back seat cause accidents .
Accidents in the back seat cause kids .
The greatest financier in the Bible was the Pharaoh 's daughter .
One day she went down to the Bank of the Nile and drew out a little prophet .
Helium was up .
Feathers were down .
Paper was stationary .
Knives were up sharply .
Pencils lost a few points .
Hiking equipment was trailing .
Elevators rose , while escalators continued a slow decline .
Light switches were off .
Mining equipment hit rock bottom .
Diapers remained unchanged .
Shipping lines stayed at an even keel .
Balloon prices were inflated .
And batteries exploded in an attempt to recharge the market .
A new public opinion poll indicates that Americans ' support for the war in Iraq is at its lowest ever - and that in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina , most Americans are concerned Iraq is draining money and resources needed at home .
In a New York Times / CBS poll released Saturday , a record low number of those surveyed - only 44 percent - said the United States made the right decision in going to war in Iraq .
Fifty-two percent wanted troops to be withdrawn as soon as possible , even if it means leaving the country unstable .
Ninety percent said they would oppose cutting spending on domestic programs to continue funding the war .
The nationwide poll of more than 1,000 adults was conducted September 9 through 13 .
The United Nations food agency says a lack of funds has left three million Ethiopians who rely on food aid in danger of malnutrition .
The World Food Program ( WFP ) appealed for $ 33 million Tuesday so that it can continue providing food in Ethiopia for the next two and a half months .
It says it has received only slightly more than half of the $ 212 million it needs this year for food aid in Ethiopia .
The agency says it has less than 20 percent of what it needs for non-food items such as health , water and sanitation facilities .
The WFP says malnutrition rates are on the rise in Ethiopia , with the situation especially bad in the eastern Somali region .
There , the WFP says nearly five percent of children are severely malnourished .
U.S. military officials say elements of the Russian Air Force will join U.S. and Canadian air units in the first-ever joint air defense exercises between the former Cold War foes .
A statement from the North American Aerospace Defense Command , NORAD , says the maneuvers - set to begin August 8 - will include training to detect and combat terrorist attacks on commercial airliners .
The exercises , code-named Vigilant Eagle , will be coordinated from a U.S. military command center at Elmendorf air base in Alaska and Russian facilities near the Far Eastern city of Khabarovsk .
Russian Air Force spokesman , Lieutenant Colonel Vladimir Drik , described the exercises as part of a working plan to improve cooperation between Russian and U.S. forces .
A NORAD statement said the maneuvers will require both the Russian and NORAD bases to launch or divert fighter planes to investigate and shadow commercial aircraft .
A U.S. general says Iraqi investigators have broken up a ring of police officers who were kidnapping people , extorting ransoms and sometimes killing their victims .
In an interview with the USA Today newspaper , Major General Joseph Peterson said the unit is alleged to have operated in northern Baghdad , under the command of an Iraqi police general .
General Peterson said the police general , who was not identified , was arrested and then released last month .
He is said to remain under investigation .
He said 17 others linked to the alleged ring remain in custody .
Allegations of Iraqi police death squads operating in Iraq 's Shi'ite-dominated security forces have circulated widely in recent weeks .
Hundreds of bodies - many of them showing signs of torture - have turned up in and around the capital since the February 22 bombing of a major Shi'ite shrine near Baghdad .
At least 35,000 people have rallied in Pakistan 's largest city , Karachi , to protest controversial cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad .
Shouting anti-American and anti-European slogans , the demonstrators marched through the city to denounce the cartoons , first published in Denmark last September .
A coalition of radical Islamic groups which opposes President Pervez Musharraf 's support for the U.S.-led war on terror organized Sunday 's rally .
Hundreds of riot police closely watched the gathering but no violence was reported .
Some protests in Pakistan have turned deadly and at least five people died in rioting last month .
Iraqi officials say former dictator Saddam Hussein will go on trial in the second half of October , so as not to affect the outcome of a national referendum on the constitution to be held October 15 .
No official announcement has come from the Iraqi Special Tribunal in charge of the trials , but officials close to the case said Friday that Saddam Hussein will be tried for the 1982 killing of dozens of residents of the town of Dujail .
The killings were allegedly in retaliation for a failed assassination attempt against him there .
Later , Saddam Hussein is expected to be tried for other alleged crimes , including the 1988 gassing of Kurds in Halabja and the 1991 suppression of a Shi'ite uprising in southern Iraq .
A U.S. official says the United States is willing to give Iran more time to consider a key uranium enrichment deal that will yield fuel for an Iranian nuclear research reactor .
"Washington 's envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency , Glyn Davies , told reporters in Vienna Monday that , in his words , "" we want to give Iran some space . """
Davies also noted the negotiations have gone beyond the scheduled time frame .
Iran has not officially responded to a U.N.-backed uranium-enrichment proposal that was drafted three weeks ago in Vienna .
But leading Iranian parliamentarian Alaeddin Boroujerdi Saturday indicated Tehran will reject the plan to send any of its 1,200 kilograms of enriched uranium abroad for further enrichment .
IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei had asked for the parties involved with the proposal ( Iran , the United States , Russia and France ) to respond by October 23 .
The U.S. Senate has been debating a military funding bill that would require President Bush to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq in October .
The measure is expected to pass Thursday in the Democratic-controlled Senate .
The legislation sets a non-binding goal of withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq by April of next year .
It also sets benchmarks for Iraq 's government to show progress in securing the country .
The Democratic-controlled U.S. House of Representatives approved a similar measure Wednesday .
"White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said President Bush will veto the legislation "" very soon "" after it arrives on his desk ."
The House measure lacked the two-thirds majority needed to override a veto , and the Senate measure is not expected to have enough votes to override a veto , either .
The Senate bill includes some $ 95 billion to fund military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the end of September .
Amnesty International says Taleban insurgents are deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan to instill fear and exert control over the population .
The London-based rights group said Thursday that civilians are increasingly facing suicide attacks , abductions and beheadings .
It said targets also include women 's rights activists , clerics , government and health workers and teachers .
On Wednesday , a U.S. commander in eastern Afghanistan said an expected Taleban offensive has not materialized , partly because of increased operations by U.S. and NATO forces .
Brigadier General Joseph Votel says there are clashes every day , but they are mostly small scale .
U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is warning against irresponsible borrowing or lending to countries that have recently received debt relief .
Speaking in Singapore Monday to the World Bank 's policy-setting committee , Paulson said the organization should develop an approach that prevents a reemergence of debt distress .
He did not single out any country , but stressed that creditors are still providing large loans to countries that have recently received debt relief .
China , in particular , has come under fire for providing loans to many countries in Africa that have only recently had large debts forgiven .
Annual meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund take place in Singapore Tuesday and Wednesday .
Sliders Preston Griffal and Dan Joye have earned the second U.S. Olympic luge team doubles berth by beating countrymen Christian Niccum and Patrick Quinn .
Griffal and Joye won in the two-run competition by 0.12 seconds Wednesday in Lake Placid , New York .
They will join two-time Olympic medalists Mark Grimmette and Brian Martinin the doubles competition .
Niccum will still compete in singles luge but Quinn will not compete in the Turin Winter Games .
Meanwhile , the final men 's singles spot on the U.S. team goes to Jonathan Myles , who beat compatriot Chris Mazdzer by 0.161 seconds .
Myles and Niccum join medal hopeful Tony Benshoofin the men 's singles .
The U.S. women 's luge team , named last week , will be Samantha Retrosi , Erin Hamlin and Courtney Zablocki .
A top U.S. lawmaker says he has urged North Korea to return to the six-party talks over its nuclear weapons program .
Congressman Tom Lantos - a Democrat from the western U.S. state of California - spoke in Beijing Tuesday after three days of talks with high-ranking North Korean officials including the vice president of the Presidium of the Supreme People 's Assembly , Yang Hyong-sop , and Foreign Minister Paek Nam Sun .
Mr. Lantos says the officials told him they support a resumption of the talks , but want to see the shape of President Bush 's second administration before making any commitments .
However , Mr. Lantos says there is no reason for Pyongyang to expect a significant change in U.S. policy towards the Korean peninsula .
North Korea has participated in three rounds of multi-party talks on its nuclear ambitions , but boycotted a fourth round scheduled for September because of what it called Washington 's hostile policy .
Iraqi police say a car bomb has killed at least five people and wounded 17 others in Baghdad , shattering a lull in insurgent attacks in the Iraqi capital .
Iraqi and U.S. forces launched a massive sweep for militants in Baghdad two weeks ago .
About 1,000 suspects have been arrested and the number of attacks has dropped .
But a U.S. military commander says he can not declare victory and warns that insurgents are looking for the chance to carry out large-scale attacks in Baghdad .
The U.S military says a roadside bomb killed five Marines Thursday in Iraq 's western Anbar province .
Also in Anbar Friday , police found the bodies of 21 Iraqi men who were apparently executed .
Some of them had been beheaded .
Authorities believe the victims were kidnapped Iraqi soldiers .
The U.S. economy shrank at a 5.7 percent annual pace in the first three months of this year .
Friday 's report from the Commerce Department said the decline was a bit less ( 0.4 percent ) than estimated earlier , and better than the prior quarter .
Many government economic experts and private economists say the worst of the recession may have passed , and they predict slow economic growth will resume later this year .
Other economic reports Friday showed U.S. business activity declining faster in a key region , while consumers grew less pessimistic .
Consumer sentiment hit its highest level since September , but remained at a relatively low level .
Economists track consumer confidence for clues about the consumer demand that drives most U.S. economic activity .
A separate report from an industry group said the pace of business activity in the U.S. Midwest fell even faster in May than in the previous month .
Riot police have clashed with thousands of demonstrators in Indian Kashmir 's summer capital , Srinagar .
Police fired teargas to disperse up to 4,000 people who took to the streets Saturday to protest the shooting death of a musician by security forces .
At least six police officers were injured in the clashes .
Witnesses say police officers fired at 31-year-old composer Inayatullah Bhat late Friday near his home in Srinagar .
A police spokesman said police acted when Bhat refused orders to stop , but residents say the musician was on a routine stroll .
India has been fighting a separatist movement in its predominantly Muslim area of divided Kashmir since 1989 .
Bomb attacks have killed nearly 70 people in Iraq , including about 50 who died in a double truck bomb explosion .
More than 100 people were wounded in the twin truck bombing Tuesday in the northern town of Tal Afar .
Hours earlier , a suicide bomber killed 10 people and wounded 25 near the city of Ramadi .
The U.S. military also said two Marines died in separate incidents during combat operations in volatile al-Anbar province .
On the political front , Iraq 's prime minister and president have introduced legislation to make it easier for former members of Saddam Hussein 's Baath party to resume working in government and security positions .
Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih said the measure is necessary for national reconciliation .
The cabinet and parliament still must approve the legislation .
The most valuable player of Major League Baseball 's 2003 World Series has a new one-year contract with the Florida Marlins .
Pitcher Josh Beckett avoided arbitration Tuesday by signing a deal worth $ 2.4 million .
He earned $ 1.5 million last year .
Considered one of Major League Baseball 's top young pitchers , the 24-year-old Beckett battled injuries last season and had three separate stints on the disabled list .
He posted a 09-Sep record with an earned run average of 3.76 in 29 starts overall in 2004 .
Beckett enjoyed his greatest success in the 2003 postseason , helping the Marlins to their second championship when he went 02-Feb in six games , including a win and loss in two World Series starts against the New York Yankees .
Sirens wailed across Israel Tuesday in remembrance of victims of the Holocaust , with citizens briefly standing in silence and motorists stopping their cars at the sides of major highways .
Commemorations honoring the estimated six million Jews killed by the Nazis during World War II were held at Yad Vashem holocaust memorial in Jerusalem .
Thousands of people also marched in silence in southern Poland at the site of the Auschwitz death camp .
Former Israeli Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize laureate Shimon Peres joined the commemoration .
A shofar , or ram 's horn sounded as about 8,000 people began the three-kilometer trek to the gas chambers at Birkenau , where the Nazis killed at least 1.1 million Jews , Roma ( Gypsies ) and others .
The first such march was held 20 years ago and now takes place as an annual memorial to the victims of Nazi Germany 's extermination campaign .
Sudan 's government and southern rebels have signed an agreement promising to end the nation 's 21-year civil war by the end of the year .
A Sudanese government official and a negotiator from the rebel Sudan People 's Liberation Movement put the December 31 deadline in writing Friday , at a rare meeting of the United Nations Security Council in Nairobi , Kenya .
Council members passed a resolution Friday urging Sudan 's government and southern rebels to make peace and linking future development aid to a comprehensive accord .
The resolution also called for an end to the 21-month-old conflict between the government and a separate rebel group in Darfur , which has left more than a million people displaced .
Malawai 's Vice President Cassim Chilumpha has been arrested on charges of plotting to overthrow the government .
The Minister of Justice says the vice president was plotting with associates to hire an assassin to kill Malawi 's President Bingu wa Mutharika .
He told local media he has taped conversations of Chilumpha 's meetings with the would-be assassin .
In February , Mr. Mutharika tried to fire the vice president for failing to attend cabinet meetings , among other charges .
Malawi 's high court reinstated Chilumpha last month .
Mr. Mutharika and Chilumpha were running mates in the 2004 elections , but have been feuding since the president quit the United Political Party and created his own political party .
France 's minister of education says the government has prepared lessons that could be broadcast on television and radio in case schools are shut down by outbreaks of swine flu .
The minister , Luc Chatel , announced Wednesday that the lessons were prepared by distance learning authorities .
He said that no closures are currently scheduled , but flu-related changes will be handled on a case-by-case basis .
China is objecting to a decision by Internet search engine Google to change maps referring to Taiwan as a province of China .
China 's state media report that officials are worried the decision may mislead people and give the impression of an independent Taiwan .
A Google spokesman told Xinhua the change was part of a regular update of all the site 's maps , rather than a deliberate effort to update the Taiwan page .
Earlier this month , Taiwan asked Google to stop listing it as a Chinese province on its maps .
Now Google maps simply call the island Taiwan .
Taiwan calls itself the Republic of China .
China views Taiwan as a breakaway province .
The two split in a civil war that ended in 1949 .
The NATO-led force in Afghanistan says three of its soldiers have been killed in bomb attacks .
NATO says two service members were killed by a bomb blast in the east , while another died in an explosion in the south .
It did not give further details .
More than 530 foreign troops have been killed in Afghanistan this year , making it the deadliest year for international forces since the U.S.-led invasion in 2001 .
Also Saturday , NATO said Afghan and coalition forces killed more than 30 insurgents in an operation in eastern Laghman province .
In a separate operation in Paktika province , NATO said its forces killed a Taliban commander who helped conduct bombings and was directly linked to attacks during last week 's parliamentary elections .
The commander was reported killed in an air strike Friday .
NATO said at least two other Taliban commanders were captured this week .
Afghanistan 's Interior Ministry says a suspected suicide bomber has tried to kill the governor of southern Helmand province by detonating a car bomb outside his office .
A ministry spokesman says the blast occurred Monday just before key local officials were to meet at the governor 's office .
The governor was not hurt in the explosion but the bomber , who was described as a foreigner , was seriously wounded .
He later died in a local hospital .
A man claiming to be a Taleban spokesman said the attacker was a local Taleban activist .
The ousted Taleban regime and its supporters have recently stepped up insurgent activities mainly in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
The International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) says a staff member who was kidnapped in Darfur three days ago is doing well and is in good spirits .
The kidnappers allowed Red Cross officials to speak with Gauthier Lefevre by telephone for the first time on Sunday .
Lefevre , a French national , was traveling in one of two clearly marked Red Cross vehicles when he was abducted Thursday near the town of Al Geneina in West Darfur .
The Red Cross says Lefevre was taken captive after he and another staffer had just completed a trip to help local communities upgrade their water systems .
The captors have not made any ransom demands .
Foreign aid groups have faced increased hostility in Darfur since the International Criminal Court indicted Sudan 's President Omar al-Bashir in March for alleged war crimes .
The presidents of Benin and Nigeria have helped launch a program to vaccinate 40 million children in the region against polio .
Benin 's President Mathieu Kerekou and his Nigerian counterpart Olusegun Obasanjo met on their shared border Sunday to drop vaccine into babies ' mouths to start the campaign .
The World Health Organization is backing the effort aimed at reversing a surge in polio cases which started in Nigeria .
In late 2003 , Islamic leaders in northwestern Nigeria suspended immunizations , claiming the WHO had supplied a vaccine that would cause sterility .
Health officials denied the claim .
